The 2018/2019 academic session of Zamfara State University, Talata Mafara has been rescheduled to continue on June 28, 2021. This comes after a story published on SaharaReporters in May 2021. Zamfara Governor, Matawalle. A student who spoke with SaharaReporters decried the silence of the state government over the fate of students enrolled in the institution since 2018. The student said the school was established in 2017 by the former governor of the state, Abdul'aziz Abubakar Yari, and was opened for admissions in 2018. See Also






Education
Bandits-Paying Zamfara Governor, Matawalle Has Shut State University For 2 Years Over Probe Of Predecessor
0 Comments
2 Weeks Ago According to the student, who spoke on condition of anonymity, the former governor created the institution because Zamfara was the only Northern state without a state university at the time. He said students were enrolled in the 2018/2019 academic sessions taught by academic staff whose employment was contract-based and the students had taken the first-semester examination successfully in 2019 before a transition of power. The student said the May 29 elections that brought in the current governor, Bello Matawalle changed the fate of the students in the institution. He told SaharaReporters that students were on the first-semester break when they all got a notice to stay back at home for a while following a probe by the new administration into some maladministration and misappropriation of funds by the former governor of the state. The student stated that the investigation the governor claimed to be conducting had gone on forever, which is a major setback for the educational pursuit of enrolled students. He pleaded with the state governor to issue a statement, asking if the university would cease to exist or continue so that students would know their fate and do what is necessary. However, in a recent development, the Zamfara State Government has approved the continuation of academic activities in the school. SaharaReporters obtained a copy of the new academic calendar signed by Aminu Abdullahi, the institution's Director of Academic Planning.  Academic activities that had been suspended since 2019 will resume on June 28, 2021, according to the calendar.