The African Bar Association has said it will visit West African country, Cape Verde, to meet with the government authorities and ensure the release of Venezuelan diplomat, Alex Saab, who had been in detention since 2020.  The ABA President, Hannibal Uwaifo, stated this in a release on Thursday obtained by SaharaReporters, noting that the association hailed the decision of the United Nations Human Rights Committee (UNHRC) with regards to Saab, which stated that the diplomat should be released. Alex Saab
The Southern African Times The African Bar Association added that the decision of Cape Verde to detain Ambassador Saab since 2020 was illegal and unjustified from the very beginning.  The release partly reads, “The African Bar Association welcomes the decision of UNHRC with regards to the Venezuelan diplomat, Mr Alex Saab. The decision of the United Nations Human Rights Committee that Mr Saab should not be extradited to the United States and should be released is in tandem with the various calls of the African Bar Association over the past several months.  “The Association is sad and very embarrassed that Cape Verde an African State continues to act illegally despite the various decisions and Rulings of the ECOWAS Community Court of Justice ordering the release and compensation of the diplomat. We regard this as a serious threat to the Rule of Law and a bad example for International Law and Order in Africa.  “The ability of Cape Verde to pride itself as a democracy and a responsible member of the international community rests on her ability to abide by the international norms and respect Judicial decisions especially in ones where she has participated and lost the argument.  “The African Bar Association once again calls on the leadership of ECOWAS and the African Union to prevail on Cape Verde to release Ambassador Saab unconditionally and to abide by the various decisions regarding his case as Mr Saab has not been found guilty of any crime.  “Meanwhile, a delegation of the African Bar Association in its avowed determination to entrench the Rule of Law in the continent is making efforts to visit Cape Verde, have audience with the relevant authorities and seek physical access to Ambassador Saab in line with International Laws. Lagos, Nigeria 22nd June 2021.”  Saab has remained under house arrest in Cape Verde although the ECOWAS court on March 15, 2021 in a ruling ordered his release.  The court ordered Cape Verde to stop all extradition processes against him and also compensate him with $200,000.  The ruling was primarily on the basis contrary to claims, Cape Verde Interpol did not issue any red notice for Mr. Saab’s arrest on the day he was arrested.  The Supreme Court in Cape Verde, a day after that ruling also delivered a counter-ruling approving the extradition of Mr. Saab.  Counsel for Mr. Saab have indicated that they will appeal the decision and have taken various actions, including writing to the ECOWAS court to get the ECOWAS community to sanction Cape Verde over its decision not to comply with the ruling.