Some All Progressives Congress (APC) chairmanship candidates in Lagos state local government council poll in July are currently enmeshed in different certificate forgery scandals. The candidates include Princess Surah Olayemi Animashaun of Epe Local Government Area (LGA), Kevin Oluwaseun Gabriel, formerly known as Kelvin Luchiano of Apapa LGA, and Kafayat Layeni of Ojodu Local Council Development Authority (LCDA).  The credentials of Funmilayo Mohammed of Apapa Iganmu LCDA, Hamed Salawu of Shomolu, and Olarunde Folorunsho of Olorunda LCDA are currently being investigated as there are questions to be answered. Documents seen by SaharaReporters showed that Surah, who is being sponsored by Oba Kamorudeen Animashaun, the Oloja of Epe Kingdom presented a fake West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) certificate despite claiming to have graduated from a Nigerian university. It was gathered that the Epe APC candidate submitted two different statements of results to the Tola Kasali- led screening committee of the party on 24th May, 2021, and the Department of State Services on 27th May, 2021. The two statements of results carried Surah’s name and the same year, 1991, but with different inputs. SaharaReporters further learnt that the APC candidate refused to present the original WAEC certificate 30 years after taking the examination. Surah also failed to submit a National Youth Service Corps certificate or exemption letter to prove she served or was exempted. Kafayat, the APC candidate in Ojodu LCDA, sponsored by the House of Representatives member representing Ikeja Federal Constituency, James Faleke also presented a fake certificate. The result in which she claimed to have grade C6 in English Language, C5 in Government, C4 in Economics, C4 in Mathematics, D7 in Biology, C5 in Commerce, and C3 in Accounts have been denied by WAEC. Also in Apapa LGA, Kevin who is being backed by Mr Tunde Balogun, the APC party chairman in Lagos state presented a fake National Examination Council (NECO) certificate, claiming he took the examination in November 2008 at over age 40 at the Command High School, Araromi-Obu, Ondo state. According to a letter obtained by SaharaReporters, the school did not conduct any NECO external examination in November 2008. “I stated clearly that the above school mentioned does not have a center for NECO External candidates and that the school does not conduct NECO external examination in November 2008. Therefore the school dissociates herself from any fraudulent practices,” a letter signed by the Vice Principal, Academic on behalf of the Principal read. Speaking to SaharaReporters, an APC chieftain said urgent action has to be taken so that the party does not lose some seats by fielding these dubious candidates. He said, “Currently, investigations are ongoing in areas like Apapa Iganmu with Funmilayo Mohammed, Shomolu with Hamed Salawu and Olarunde Folorunsho of Olorunda LCDA as these areas are likely to be affected as well. “The issues of these false documents are not limited to just the chairmen and their deputies, councillors in some local governments too are involved in the mess. The case of Toheeb Shokunbi, a councillor in Ikorordu Central, and very many are scattered all over the state. “One wonders why the APC did not do a thorough and proper verification process before fielding these candidates. APC must now act fast as the opposition parties are well equipped with all the evidence of these malpractices and are waiting to use it to their advantage should the need arise.” DOCUMENTS: Lagos Chairmanship Candidates for All Progressives Congress Party in Messy Certificate Scandals.... by Sahara Reporters on Scribd  New Document by Sahara Reporters on Scribd 