Yoruba freedom fighter Sunday Adeyemo popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has revealed that plans for the Oduduwa Republic rally scheduled to hold in Lagos on July 3 remain on course The spokesman for the activist, Olayomi Koiki, who spoke in a live video, said the rally is scheduled to take off from Ojota Park, Lagos on the said date. File Photo But in a report by The Nation, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu said no group had approached the command in respect of a rally. The CP was quoted as saying: “I’m not aware of anybody planning any rally anywhere in Lagos. Nobody has written to the Command to that effect. So, when we get to the bridge, we’ll cross it.” Also, the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on June 7, ruled out the breakaway of Nigeria, saying there is strength in diversity Sanwo-Olu called on the over 200 million Nigerians to utilise the numerical strength and the beauty of the diversity of the nation to foster economic prosperity and political stability. His comment had come against the backdrop of secessionist calls in some quarters, especially in the South-East ND South-West with calls for Biafra and Oduduwa Republics. Sanwo-Olu, who is one of the six governors in the South-West geopolitical zone, said he remains committed to one united and prosperous Nigeria where fairness and equal distribution of resources will be the order of the day. But, when SaharaReporters spoke with Koiki on Tuesday, he noted that irrespective of the stance of the Lagos police or government, the rally will hold. According to him, the land belongs to the Lagos people and not to the Commissioner of Police, adding that no one has the right to stop the people from carrying out 'a peaceful rally'. He said, ”This is not #EndSARS neither is it June 12 rally, we are coming for a peaceful rally in Lagos State, no violence will be recorded and that rally will hold. “We have no business with the police and we are not coming to disrupt the peace of Lagos state. Let them pull whatever strings they can, by the time we get there, we will know what to do. We are simply demanding our own nation, so it is different from whatever rally was held on June 12 or during the #EndSARS protest. “Tell them that, I, Olayomi Koiki, media aide to Chief Sunday Adeyemo (Igboho) said we will hold the July 3rd rally in Lagos State. We know what the police do to disperse peaceful protesters but we are not protesting, we are creating awareness. Yoruba Nation now, no retreat, no surrender.”