The Speaker of Talakawa Parliament, a civil society group, Kola Edokpayi has alerted the Benin Monarch, Oba Ewuare II, Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, the police and other security agencies to the imminent crisis in Iguoshodin N' Ebudin commmunity in the Ovia North East Local Government Area of the state if the situation is not urgently addressed. Edokpayi said in a press statement that it beats his imagination to note that the Secretary to Benin Traditional Council (BTC), Frank Irabor has been fingered as a principal actor fanning the embers of the crisis. Godwin Obaseki He wondered why the BTC Secretary, who is supposed to be purveyor of peace, could be promoting crisis in the community. While appealing to the Benin monarch to caution the BTC Secretary, Edokpayi expressed the need for the palace to urgently resolve the matter before it degenerates into a full blown crisis. He also appealed to the Commissioner of Police to deploy policemen to the community so as to avert a breakdown of law and order. Edokpayi said the parliament was alerted to the situation in the community by the elders, women and youths and as a promoter of justice, equity and good conscience, the forum alerted relevant stakeholders. He expressed Talakawa Parliament's displeasure with the manner by which some commmunities in the state were engulfed in big crises, citing Ogheghe and Okoroma commmunities in the Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area and Amagba commmunity in Oredo Local Government Area. "We don't want a repeat," he said. On his part, the Okaighele of the community, Pastor Sunny Osahon said he does not understand the BTC Secretary's interest in the community where some indigenes are trying to arrogate leadership positions to themselves, even when they are not the appropriate persons to be there. He said the grouse with him started after he refused to support the cause championed by one Mr Uwuigbe Omoragbon and his cohorts against the commmunity leadership for alleged self-serving interests.