President Muhammadu Buhari says that a lot needs to be done to tackle securitiy challenges in the country. Addressing the troops of the Joint Task Force at Maimalari Cantonment parade ground in Maiduguri, Borno State capital on Thursday, Buhari commended the resilience of the military personnel but reminded them that there was still a lot of work to be done to completely restore peace to the North East, stem the activities of armed bandits in the North West and North Central, as well as deal with other security challenges across the country. File Photo: Buhari in military uniform The President said he was pleased to acknowledge that the military and other security agencies, including civilian stakeholders were adhering to the true spirit of Operation HADIN KAI which implies jointness, synergy and cooperation. He also noted that the outcome of inter agencies synergy was evidenced by the successes recorded in the ongoing Operation TURA TAKAIBANGO, which he said had so far degraded the insurgents’ capabilities in the Timbuktu Triangle, Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad Region. The statement read, “As your Commander-in-Chief, I want to assure you that this government will continue to work towards the provision of timely funding and procurement of equipment for the Armed Forces and other security agencies. This is intended to boost the prosecution of the ongoing war to a logical conclusion and also to serve our collective interests and well-being. “In addition, your welfare is of utmost importance and concern to this government. I am glad that the gradual rotation of the troops in the field has commenced, as I directed. I am sure that this will minimise and possibly eliminate battle fatigue, as well as enhance troops’ morale. “I now wish to thank you for your unalloyed loyalty and selfless sacrifices towards the defence of our country. Your courage and gallantry will continue to inspire others, as they echo into the future. “While I commend your resilience, let me remind you that there is still a lot of work to be done, to completely restore peace to the North East, stem the activities of armed bandits in the North West and North Central, as well as deal with other security challenges across the country. “You must therefore remain steadfast and see this war to a conclusive end. In doing so, you must rely on interagency cooperation, strengthen your cohesion with the troops of neighbouring Republics of Cameroon, Chad and Niger in our collective fight against the terrorists, under the auspices of the Multinational Joint Task Force. This will consolidate our efforts and facilitate the speedy return of peace and stability to the region. “Once again I salute your courage and wish you the best, as you continue to make Nigeria proud.”