The Ekiti State Police Command has arrested a 16-year-old girl, Abimbola Suluka, alongside her boyfriend, Oluwaseun Olajide, for alleged conspiracy and self-kidnapping. Abimbola is alleged to have conspired with her 25-year-old boyfriend and two of his friends to stage the abduction to raise money. File photo used to illustrate story. In a statement on Friday, the police spokesperson, Sunday Abutu, explained that Abimbola's sister had gone to the police station to report that her sister was missing after leaving the house for school. Abutu said the sister explained that when Abimbola's phone was called, an unknown person answered the call and informed them that she was in his custody and would not release her until a ransom of N500,000 was paid. Luck ran against the suspects when the holder of the account given for the ransom payment was tracked and arrested by the police's anti-kidnapping unit and forced to lead the police team to a hotel within the state capital where they supposedly abducted Abimbola, and her boyfriend was nabbed. Abimbola with the three others confessed to committing the crime, claiming she wanted to raise money from her family members to relocate from Ekiti State since her mother insisted she study medicine against her dream of becoming an actress. The police said, "She further narrated that when Suluka Abimbola's phone number was called, an unknown person picked and confirmed that Suluka Abimbola was in their custody but would not be released until a ransom of five hundred thousand naira is paid to a particular Union Bank Account belonging to one Adisa Damilola. "The case was immediately transferred to the Anti-kidnapping Unit of the State CID where the owner of the account, one Adisa Damilola' f' who is also a friend to Oluwaseun Daniel Olajide, was tracked and arrested. Adisa Damilola led the Operatives of the Anti-kidnapping Unit to Alex Grace Hotel, along Housing, Ado-Ekiti, where Suluka Abimbola and her boyfriend, Oluwaseun Daniel Olajide, alongside one other accomplice, Adefolaju Caleb' m' 23, were lodging and were arrested. "During interrogation, Suluka Abimbola confessed to the crime as well as Oluwaseun Daniel Olajide and Adefolaju Caleb. Suluka Abimbola said she decided to conspire with the other suspects to do that for her to raise money from her family members to enable her to relocate from Ekiti State since her mother insisted that she goes through the medical field as against her dream of becoming an Actress."