A constitutional lawyer, Kayode Ajulo has said the directive to prosecute the violators of Twitter ban in Nigeria by the Attorney General of Federation, Abubakar Malami is an invitation to anarchy in the country. He said no part of the penal laws prohibits Nigerians from receiving or disseminating information, describing it as a right guaranteed under Section 39 of the Constitution.  The lawyer said the directive was in contrary to the spirit of the constitution and capable of causing anarchy in a democractic society where rule of law ought to be the guiding principles. Ajulo stated this on Sunday in a statement while reacting to an order issued by the Malami, threatening to arrest and charge to court any Nigerian who violates the ban. The statement said, "Sequel to the temporary ban of Twitter operations in Nigeria by the Federal Government on Friday, 4th June, 2021, my attention has been drawn to a directive credited to the Attorney General of the Federation for the prosecution of violators of the ban of the blogging company in Nigeria. "I have carefully looked at the contents of our various penal laws and nowhere is a citizen of the country prohibited from receiving or disseminating information which is a right guaranteed under Section 39 of the Constitution. "While I am weary to believe that the statement credited to the Honourable Attorney General of Federation, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, is with respect, inchoate as the position of law is clear and unambiguous and whatever directive issued for the prosecution of violators of the ban of Twitter blog in Nigeria runs contrary to the letters and the spirit of the Constitution and same anachronistic in a democractic society where rule of law ought to be the guiding compass." The statement also quoted Section 36 (12) which stipulates that no person shall be convicted of a criminal offence unless that offence was defined and the penalty prescribed in a written law. Ajulo therefore added that the constitution of a nation is not only of the jurisprudence but also of the legal system of the nation which serves as beginning and the end of the legal system.