The Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin on Sunday condemned the attack on the people of Igangan in the Ibarapa North Local Government Area of the state by suspected Fulani herders. He also called for an urgent security meeting to include the police, vigilantes, Amotekun Corps and hunters to prevent another attack.  Ogundoyin said if such attacks continue, it will show that the state government has not done enough to tackle insecurity in the state. The Speaker, in a statement, called on security agencies to launch a manhunt for the killers of the innocent residents of the state.



See Also






Insecurity
Oyo Community Residents Flee As Fulani Herdsmen Kill 10, Burn Monarch's Palace 
0 Comments
13 Hours Ago SaharaReporters had reported that the killer herdsmen arrived at Igangan community around 11pm on Saturday and left about 10 people dead while many cars and houses were burnt. But Ogundoyin in the statement said about five people were reportedly killed by the herdsmen and bandits. The statement reads, "Early this morning, I received distressed call about a fresh attack on our people in Igangan, Ibarapa North Local Government Area by bandits and suspected criminal herders in which about 5 residents were allegedly killed, some injured and properties burnt. "I condemn this unfortunate attack and sympathise with the families who lost their loved ones and properties. I also appreciate the security personnel, vigilantes, Amotekun corps, local hunters and brave men that rose in the middle of the night to combat the bandits and save the lives of our people. "These murderers are not tired and it is our collective responsibility to protect our lives, women, children and our communities from these evil doers. "While assuring of my continuous support to every adoptable security measure and strategy, I’m also calling on all security agencies- the Nigeria Police, Operation Burst, Amotekun Corps, vigilante groups, local hunters, community leaders within and around Ibarapaland for an urgent security meeting. "If this insecurity persists, it means we have not done enough. All of us. "It is not time to sleep...let us all stay awake."