Two anti-President Muhammadu Buhari protesters, Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka detained by the Kogi State Government have finally been granted bail. The two protesters were granted bail by a magistrate's court in the state after spending 68 days in illegal detention. SaharaReporters Media The court on Friday granted them bail. The court had on Wednesday adjourned ruling on the bail application for two anti-Buhari protesters till Friday. The court resumed hearing on Wednesday after strike action by judicial workers was called off. The court, after listening to both sides, adjourned the date for rule on the application till Friday, June 18, 2021.



See Also






ACTIVISM
BREAKING: Court Adjourns Ruling On Bail Application For Anti-Buhari Protesters Detained For 66 Days In Kogi
0 Comments
2 Days Ago Sources had told SaharaReporters that the Magistrate, Tanko Muhammed did not rule in the bail application on Wednesday because he wanted to consult with the state Deputy Governor, Edward Onoja, who got him for the filthy job of throwing the activists in prison illegally. SaharaReporters had reported that Emmanuel and Udoka, who had been detained by the Kogi State Government since April 5, recently began a hunger strike at the Kabba Prison as the government continued to ignore national and international voices calling for their release.



See Also






Human Rights
Kogi Deputy Governor Pressurises Magistrate To Deny Bail To Anti-Buhari Protesters After Two Months’ Detention
0 Comments
1 Day Ago SaharaReporters learnt last Friday that Emmanuel and Udoka refused to eat inside the prison, as their health condition had deteriorated as a result of the inhuman treatments meted out to them.“Larry and Victor are now on hunger strike in Kabba prison,” a source revealed. SaharaReporters had on June 2 exposed how the Kogi State Acting Chief Judge, Justice Richard Olorunfemi, and the Chairman of the Kogi State branch of the Magistrates Association of Nigeria, Dr Tanko Muhammed, arranged a kangaroo trial for the two protesters.