The Indigenous People of Biafra's lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, whose residence was invaded by the army and police personnel last weekend, has demanded the "immediate and unconditional release" of his domestic workers, who were whisked away. Ejiofor in a statement he signed on Tuesday noted that the Anambra State Commissioner of Police told him that the security operatives were not from him. File Photo: Ifeanyi Ejiofor addressing IPOB members The IPOB lawyer called on the Inspector General of Police, the Chief of Army Staff and the Director General of State Security Services "to immediately investigate their personnel that invaded my peaceful home, killed, stole and destroyed my valuables." He said, "Can we take it that some elements who are hugely benefiting from the hostilities in our region are after my life, apparently they are enjoying the present genocide going on in the South-East which my intervention was designed to curtail? See Also






Human Rights
How I Survived Army, Police Invasion Of My Residence When They Killed My Aide — IPOB Lawyer, Ejiofor
0 Comments
2 Hours Ago "Interestingly the Anambra State Police Commissioner confirmed to me that he was never aware of the operation. How did these killers in army and police uniform drive all the way from Abuja to Anambra to unleash mayhem without notifying the CP of the state? "I therefore, demand for the immediate and unconditional release of my domestic staff abducted from my home during this unprovoked attack. "Furthermore, I call on the Inspector General of Police, Chief of Army Staff, Director General of State Security Services and the Director General of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps to immediately investigate their personnel that invaded my peaceful home, killed, stole and destroyed my valuables. The perpetrators of this evil shall be publicly named and prosecuted without further delay. "I must deeply appreciate the untiring efforts of my client, friend and in-law, Chief Femi Fani Kayode for defying sleep at that wee hours of the night when he got the SOS from me, to alert the world and those that mattered on the bloody attack/invasion of my peaceful home by those whose primary duty is to secure lives and properties. "I want to specially thank my people of good conscience, particularly the members of my noble Association (NBA), the erudite President of the Bar (Mr. Olumide Akpata) who was consistently checking on me and keeping touch at the hit of this turbulent hours."