The National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS) has urged its member-schools nationwide to engage armed security as schools have now become targets of kidnappers and with the government failing to guarantee security. NAPPS in a release enjoined all schools to “invest in community armed security personnel” as well as on perimeter fencing to safeguard the pupils under them.  The NAPPS National President, Chief Yomi Otubela, in a June 12 statement to the schools, obtained by SaharaReporters, noted that the Democracy Day celebration is coming at a time when Nigerian schools are preys in the hands of criminals. Otubela said, “Unfortunately, this year's democracy day celebration is coming at a time when the spate of insecurity in the country is at its alarming rate. More worrisome is the fact that schools are not spared as kidnappings, killings have virtually become the order of the day. “Given this sad development, I would like to encourage members to invest in the following as their contribution to the war against insecurity; one, schools should invest in perimeter fencing; two, collaborate with the community to invest in community armed security personnel. “Schools with hostel facilities should invest in armed security. They should improve welfare package for security personnel within the school network. They should also run another background checks on security personnel and embark on retraining and refresher courses. “They should increase schools budgetary allocation to security.” The NAPPS noted that the association, on its part, would ensure that it provides “welfare packages to members” to cushion the effects of the hard times. “There will be continuous advocacy on unfriendly government policies; free and affordable capacity building programmes for Members' school personnel; opportunity to members for social networking through programmes, social media platforms. “We would like to call on both Federal Government and state governments to provide sufficient facilities for growth and peace within the country. It is only a peaceful environment that can attract both foreign and internal investments that will drive the economy for growth and development,” he noted.