No fewer than 300 social media users have unfollowed popular Gospel musician, Tope Alabi, over comments condemning a song by an up-and-coming gospel artiste, Yinka Alaseyori. The song which described God as ‘Oniduro’, meaning a guarantor or surety was condemned by Alabi while performing on stage in a public event.  In a video that has now gone viral, Alabi was seen making a veiled reference to Alaseyori's song, saying it will be wrong for anybody to refer to their God as a guarantor. Tope Alabi, who spoke in Yoruba, said there was a day she wanted to sing the song, but the Holy Spirit told her to shut up. According to her, God is more than a guarantor or surety and it will not be good to describe him so. She further warned Gospel singers to digest songs very well before releasing them to the public. She said, “Look at the enormous things God has done and somebody now came out to say Oniduromi e seun. God is not my own guarantor. God is more than a guarantor. I also loved that song, but the day I wanted to sing it, the Holy Spirit said ‘shut up your mouth.’ This is not like saying a song is not good. “When you receive a song in the spirit, there are some deliberations you must have with the Holy Spirit before releasing it to the public, otherwise, if you release it the way it comes, individuals will just be singing rubbish." Despite her prominence, Alabi's comment was met with outbursts from some of her fans. While many pointed out that the singer also uses 'worldly' lyrics in her songs, some simply just unfollowed her. From checks, SaharaReporters observed that Tope Alabi's follower base on Instagram reduced by 300 in the past week. Also, comments regarding 'Oniduro' have consistently trolled almost every of Tope Alabi's Instagram posts even without being related. She seemed to have lost respect on social media. Below are some of the comments: Odamilolaoseun wrote, “Madam Tope Alabi, I think it's time you retrace your step and restitute of all the unwarranted critiquing, stop pulling others down. The part where you said 'your pride' (not the holy spirit) said 'gbenu soun' (shut up) is a big fat lie! Where and when others fail and run a guarantor (Oniduro) stands. Who stands before the throne pleading for us? Who advocates for us? E ronujinle ma (think deeply, ma).”  Another Instagram user, Toyinooge wrote, “Oloruko pupo ni Olorun (God goes by many names)... You call him what HE is to you... He is my Guarantor, Surety, He is everything good. Saying that publicly wasn't nice at all.” Sleekvalerie stated, ”Aunty Tope 'onilara' (Envious Aunty Tope). 'Emi mimo' (Holy spirit) said you should 'gbenu sound abi' shut up, right). Secretary to the Holy Spirit. You have no right to discredit another person's song. Awon born against.”  Walegbajumo said, “When Tope Alabi sang: 'Oti Jesu npami o jare' meaning 'Jesus' alcoholic drink is intoxicating her', nobody faulted her or saw any negative vision concerning that. What moral justification does she has to fault 'Oniduro mi Eseun ooo?' Meaning 'Guarantor'.” Meanwhile, the young lady whose song was condemned was seen in a recent Instagram video singing the 'condemned' song alongside one of Tope Alabi's song. This has endeared many tweeps to her and they sought to follow her.