The lawyers of the family of a fruit vendor recently killed by a trigger-happy soldier in Gusau, Zamfara State, have demanded N200 million as compensation. They asked the Minister of Defence to direct the Nigerian Army to pay his family the N200 million.  The solicitors also urged the Army to punish the killer in accordance with the laws of the land, Punch reports. The fruit vendor, Abdulkadir Musa, was shot dead by a gunman suspected to be a soldier for refusing to allow him to go away with his bunch of bananas without paying for it The firm of M. B. Idris & Co in a letter dated June 8, 2021, and signed by Bello Idris Galadi, stated, “As solicitors to the family of the late Abdulkadir Musa (Mai Ayaba) of Gusau, Zamfara State, on whose behalf and firm instructions we write to you herein, you may wish to be notified that on Sunday, May 9, 2021, around 5pm, two soldiers in mufti visited Abdulkadir at his shop located at the Hayin Buba junction, Bye-pass Road, Gusau, and priced a bunch of bananas. “You may wish to be informed that an argument erupted between the two soldiers and the deceased over the price of the bunch of bananas; thereafter, a complaint was lodged against the soldiers at the Gusau Police Area Command upon which three police officers rushed to the scene and disposed off the case. “Retrospectively, the police officers urged the soldiers to give the deceased N500 for the bananas they bought, which they did, as if the case was over, only for the soldiers to return in a couple of minutes with two firearms and one of them shot Abdulkadir in the chest and he died a few minutes later. "It may interest you to know that even though the soldiers escaped immediately after the killing, they were subsequently arrested and are currently undergoing interrogation by both the Army authorities in Zamfara State and the police command.” The firm called on the Chief of Army Staff to ensure the family is compensated, saying its breadwinner was murdered by the soldiers without any reason.