The Lagos State Television authority has suffered years of neglect and abandonment by past governors of the state after the exit of the Lateef Kayode Jakande administration. The television station was established in October 1980 by Jakande, a Nigerian journalist who became the governor of Lagos in Nigeria from 1979 to 1983.  It was the first television station in Nigeria to operate on two frequencies/bands — VHF and UHF. However, an official of the TV station has accused Jakande's successors of neglecting the media outlet by pursuing their own selfish interest. According to the official, Bola Tinubu, who was governor of the state from 1999 to 2007, for instance, abandoned the television station to establish his private TV station, Television Continental (TVC). The staff member alleged that the Babatunde Fashola administration in Lagos state also abandoned LTV while patronising private TV stations, like Channels television. The staff member added that past governor Akinwunmi Ambode seemed to show support for the LTV but it was alleged that Ambode's cronies exploited this and accessed billions of naira from the governor and put in their own pockets. The incumbent governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has also allegedly been using Arise TV as his choice TV station. The staff member, who spoke with SaharaReporters, noted that workers of the station are presently being owed over 44 months' pension arrears. He also alleged that monies deducted from workers' salaries for health insurance have not been remitted to the health scheme, and that it has denied the staff access to the scheme. It was also alleged that the equipment in the station has become obsolete while the ones newly purchased are inferior with inflated receipts running into millions of naira.  The source said, ”The Lagos Television is the official mouthpiece of the Lagos State government, exemplary of the late Governor of Lagos State, Lateef Kayode Jakande who actualised it, just like he did with thousands of staff quarters, low and medium staff quarters amongst others, as well as the Lagos State University. “The legacy of Jakande is gradually being eroded as it concerns the Lagos Television. The superstructure itself is over 40 years old, it is crumbling. In fact, it is a disaster waiting to happen, while the state government dilly dallies. Most equipment is either obsolete or inferior, but with inflated receipts running into millions of naira. "Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, rather than to upgrade or modernise the television station, opted for his own personal TV station (TVC). Babatunde Fashola loved and patronised private TV stations, especially 'Channels TV'. “Akinwunmi Ambode seemed to love the state TV station, but his cronies exploited his love for the TV station to access billions from the governor into their own private vaults: These cronies are Steve Ayorinde, one-time commissioner for information and strategy; Habib Aruna, Ambode's chief press secretary, Fola Adeyemi, former permanent secretary and Sonny Irabor. ”They also installed a stooge, Siju Alabi as General Manager, a seasoned newscaster, but with zero experience as an administrator. She has succeeded in practically bringing down the TV station to its knees, with staff exiting the once thriving and darling TV station of Lagosians. The boss lady remains at the helm of affairs as the TV station crumbles daily. “The incumbent governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has also adopted the private TV station, 'Arise TV ' as his choice TV station. ”The TV station presently owes old and new staff members over 44 months pension arrears. Health insurance deductions from staff salary has not been remitted to the health scheme, denying staffs access to the scheme. “Deductions on paper had also effectively killed the cooperative scheme of the organisation. “The TV station of neighbouring Ogun State stands solidly as a stark contrast to that of the affluent Lagos State. It has a brand new superstructure, built by the former governor of the state, Ibikunle Amosun, state-of-the-art studios, conducive interior and exterior space. Who will save Lagos television from dying? ”For live transmissions, we do not have an Outside Broadcasting Van. We only use stream box. The OB van on our premises is only for decoration. N50 million was spent recently on those studios with nothing to show for it. “There has been no electricity in some sections of the station since Friday. We had to make use of a fan in the studio recently.” 