There is palpable tension in parts of Enugu and Abia states after Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), was arrested by the Nigerian government as military personnel have flooded major highways. Some residents confirmed this to SaharaReporters, saying the heavy presence of security personnel, mainly policemen and soldiers, has been noticed in the past few days. File photo One of the residents in the Ohafia community of Abia State said following the development, they were awaiting videos of Nnamdi Kanu, and wanted him to address them. “Many people find it difficult to believe the report because there are no videos to support claims Kanu has been arrested. If Kanu is truly arrested, the youths of the South-East, in our usual practice, will defend him,” a resident said. “Soldiers have been all over Enugu town in Enugu State for the past few days. We were still wondering what could have happened. They are on major roads in Abia too. But one thing is clear; the voice of the people cannot be subdued. Maybe the military will kill everyone in the South-East and start living there,” another resident said. SaharaReporters had earlier reported that Kanu was picked up at a location in Africa, and the Nigerian government only decided to be manipulative about the details. “He was not arrested in London or anywhere in the United Kingdom. Diplomats confirmed that Kanu was picked up somewhere in Africa. The family and IPOB are very unhappy. Apparently, they have known about the trailing an arrest for about some time,” a top source stated. SaharaReporters had earlier reported that the family of Nnamdi Kanu asked the Federal Government not to manhandle their son, who is currently in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS). Speaking in Umuahia, the Abia state capital, Nnamdi Kanu's younger brother, Emmanuel Kanu said the IPOB leader stood on the path of truth and committed no crime to deserve any persecution. According to him, Nnamdi was only asking for the freedom of Biafrans which is their fundamental human right hence, his rights should be respected. He said the whole world is watching how the Nigerian Government will handle Kanu. He further noted that his brother had awakened the consciousness of Nigerians about the goings-on in the country. My brother stood for the truth, and Heaven is on the part of anyone standing for the truth. “He committed no crime, and the whole world is watching,” Emmanuel added.