The Nigerian Army in conjunction with the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, has directed all operational and brigade commanders, heads of divisions, and other key units to be on high alert to prevent civilian protests planned for June 12 in major cities across the country. According to a memo sighted by SaharaReporters, the army has drafted more reinforcements to the 81 division in Enugu State and 2 division in Ibadan, Oyo State, to ensure that the protests are forestalled. File Photo The military has given orders to its commanders to enforce roadblocks and stop-and-search in the major cities during June 12 to prevent mass movements which could “undermine national security.” Top sources told SaharaReporters that the Office of the National Security Adviser is working with major telecommunications firms to see to how the internet space could be slowed down on June 12 to frustrate communication. “Soldiers have been put on high alert against Biafra and Oduduwa republics' agitators. The government is wary of another repeat of #EndSARS and has asked the military to frustrate mass movements and protests by taking over the major roads and conducting aimless stop-and-search,” a source revealed. “There are other security reports they are working on, but the bottom line is that the government is working hard to tighten the noose on the social media and other means of communication particularly on the day, June 12.” SaharaReporters had last week reported that June 12 Democracy Day nationwide protest was currently gathering momentum as Nigerians in over 30 cities around the world had showed solidarity to register their displeasure about the country’s state of insecurity. Civil society organisations and human rights activists had called for a nationwide protest on June 12, Nigeria’s Democracy Day, against the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, in a Twitter post last Thursday, said residents of about 31 cities had confirmed their readiness for the mass protest. “Akure. Kaduna. Kano. Zaria. Abuja. Lagos. Benin City. Port Harcourt. Abeokuta. Lokoja. Osogbo. Yola. Calabar. Onitsha. Awka. London. New York. Jos. Makurdi. Warri. Ibadan. Ilorin. Minna. Lafia. Damaturu. Gombe. Joburg. Toronto. Frankfurt. Stockholm-CONFIRMED ‪#June12Protest ‪#BuhariMustGo. “These are cities that have been confirmed ready for ‪#June12Protest. Ado-Ekiti is now confirmed,” he had tweeted.