Yoruba Nation agitators have threatened to shut down the country if there is bloodshed in the South-West region during the protest that will be staged on June 12 –Democracy Day. This was made known by Olayomi Koiki, media spokesman for Yoruba freedom fighter, Sunday Adeyemo (Igboho) in a Facebook broadcast monitored by SaharaReporters.  SaharaReporters had last week reported that June 12 Democracy Day nationwide protest was currently gathering momentum as Nigerians in over 30 cities around the world had shown solidarity to register their displeasure about the country’s state of insecurity. Civil society organisations and human rights activists had called for a nationwide protest on June 12, Nigeria’s Democracy Day, against the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, in a Twitter post last Thursday, said residents of about 31 cities had confirmed their readiness for the mass protest. But there are intelligent reports that soldiers and police officers are being deployed to the South-West and South-East regions to prevent the June 12 protests. Koiki, in the live broadcast, called for the South-West governors’ support, requesting that they should warn soldiers and police to stay away from protesters. He stated, “Let us warn the federal government that if there is bloodshed this weekend, the international community is watching. If the military kills any Nigerian this weekend, it is going to be very hot. “We will shut down the whole system if there is a single blood-shed. June 12 protest will hold and nothing must happen to any Yoruba indigene. “Nothing must happen in Yorubaland, if anything happens, we will destroy everything. We have information that the Federal Government has deployed the military to the South-West this weekend, if they try anything, there will be trouble. “We will ensure the Fulanis leave our land, they have taken over the whole part of the country, they control everything, what we want is self-determination. “We are not just talking about the Fulani in the bush or those who are killing people, we are talking about those who are controlling the country. “They are tagging us as secessionist, no, we are not, all we have been clamouring for is self-determination. “South-West Governors, we appreciate you for having left us alone to carry out our rallies but please warn the military not to roll out armoured tanks this weekend. Nothing can stop the Yoruba Nation because it is a country on its own. “The Yoruba Nation rally will go ahead in every part of Yoruba land and the rest of the country where it will hold. Tell all the Yoruba politician to return before it is too late, we won't any election to hold in 2023 “Red alarm will begin on Friday. People should stock up food items from Friday night. No student from the South-West should go to school on Friday. Parents, please let your children stay back at home. “We are not backing down this weekend. We are ready to take back what belongs to us. We have tolerated nonsense for too long and now, it must have an end.”