Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, has assured Nigerians that the security challenges bedevilling the country will soon be forgotten.  He revealed that the Nigerian government has increased efforts to adequately combat the insecurity, adding that the Supplementary Budget sent to the National Assembly for approval would address the procurement of military weapons for the use of all security agents in the country. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo. Professor Osinbajo disclosed this when he received in audience the Oluyin of Iyin Ekiti, His Royal Majesty, Oba Adeola Adeniyi Ajakaiye, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.  He, however, said that it is the obligation of every Nigerian citizen to support the nation’s security services to ensure that Nigeria is safe, Vanguard reports.  “I can assure you that soon, the issue of insecurity will be a thing of the past and that we will all live in peace and prosperity in this country,” Osinbajo said.  Osinbajo added that President Muhammadu Buhari has inaugurated a committee to examine the nitty-gritty of the security lapses in the country and address them from the foundation which further propelled him to send the supplementary budget.  He said, “The President has recently constituted a committee that will look at the whole security infrastructure with a view to looking at the needs of the military, as well as the police and security agencies.  “The result of that is a bill before the National Assembly, a supplementary bill.  “The purpose of that bill is to present some of the needs of the military, as well as of security agencies in order to be able to beef up our response to the security challenges.”  He emphasised the need for paramount rulers, local and state governments to partner with the Nigerian Government to tackle insecurity.  He said, “Any country with this number of security challenges must respond as robustly as possible.  “But it is also important to bear in mind that it takes a combined effort of all of us, at the local government level, state and federal levels; all of the levels; we need to come together to tackle this issue of insecurity.”  He said even as the Nigerian Government is very concerned, and will persistently upgrade efforts towards improving security nationwide, community efforts are also important in tackling the issue from the roots.  He stated that it is an unavoidable conclusion that at the level of community there is a need to take decisive action, as most of the security issues occur at the community level.  The Vice President expressed happiness that the traditional ruler has a committee in place in his domain organised for the purpose of tackling insecurity “and that you’ve been able to contain the menace that we see in different parts of the country in your community”.  He added that the President Buhari-led administration will provide necessary support to the community in tackling its challenges, adding that the government is also working with the Ekiti State government on dealing with insecurity, as well as various issues.  In his remarks, the Oluyin of Iyin Ekiti, Oba Adeola Adeniyi Ajakaiye, thanked the Vice President for granting them audience and listening to their demands, including support for the establishment of a Federal University of Medical and Health Sciences in the community.