The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress and former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, has returned to the country after his medical trip to Paris, the French capital, where he had treatment for some undisclosed old age ailment. Tinubu returned on Tuesday amidst rumours from several quarters that he had passed on in the European country.  The two-term former Lagos governor and godfather clocked 69 years on March 29. Photographs showed Tinubu at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport on Tuesday during his arrival in Lagos State. SaharaReporters had reported that Tinubu was away since last Thursday to France and was conspicuously absent from the one-day working visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Lagos State. "Tinubu is in Paris, France for a medical checkup. His health is deteriorating due to old age," a top source told SaharaReporters. Though the former Lagos state governor has not openly declared his intention to run for president in 2023, it is an open secret that he intends to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. His posters have already flooded Abuja and so were bags of rice branded as 'Jagaban Rice', which flooded Kano in April. The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) celebrated his 69th birthday in Kano State. The decision had generated various comments but Tinubu claimed the move was to prove that Nigeria is one. In December 2020, he met with some scholars who threw their weight behind his “2023 presidential ambition”. Tinubu had also been to Kaduna and Katsina states, which are among the states with the largest voting populations in the country. He had also recently donated the sum of N50 million to victims of a recent fire outbreak at Katsina Central Market in Katsina State. This was even as he paid sympathy visits to traders and other victims of the fire outbreak in company with the state governor, Aminu Bello Masari. Nigeria is already suffering for voting for Buhari, who had spent a considerable amount of time, that should have been used to work for the country, treating himself abroad, on taxpayers' funds. "Tinubu still wants to be president. This could mean another medical tourism presidency for our country,” another source told SaharaReporters. In January 2021, Tinubu was reported sick and hospitalised in Paris, France. Tinubu had earlier complained of exhaustion and travelled out to rest before the news of his collapse went viral. He was flown to Paris for medical attention in the first week of January.