The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has rejected calls to take over the South-East security outfit, Ebube Agu, citing lack of logistics. This group made its position known in a statement issued by its Secretary-General, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, on Thursday. Ohanaeze Ndigbo According to the statement, there have been calls by well-meaning Igbo people for the group to take over the security formation. Ohanaeze, however, said it would not yield to such request as there were no consultative meetings or authorisation before the outfit was formed. The group further urged South-East governors to provide the necessary logistics needed for operations of Ebube Agu, while calling for the reinstatement of the chairman of the South-East Governors Security Committee, Obi Umahi, who resigned based on logistics deficiencies in operation. The statement read, “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has rejected the calls from well-meaning Igbos to take over Ebube Agu Southeast Security Outfit, as there were no consultative meetings and people's approval or authorisation for the outfit before its formation. ”The South-East governors should be encouraged to sufficiently provide necessary logistics and reinstate the Chairman of South-East Governors Security Committee who resigned based on logistics deficiencies in operation, unlike the Amotekun, where the South-West Governors provided adequate facilities and logistics, Ebube Agu was built on emotional grounds and sentiments. ”Ohanaeze Ndigbo is not saddled with the Constitutional rights of protection of lives and properties in the South-East, and we are independently funded through communal support of Ndigbo without any government's consent, it will be horrible to compound the responsibility of Ebube Agu on us, South-East Governors are capable of providing logistics and we are in full support of them.” SaharaReporters recall that the Chairman, South-East Security Committee, Umahi resigned his appointment on June 4 following logistics issues. The South-East Governors’ Forum had on August 31, 2019, appointed Umahi as the chairman security committee.