A few days after the Kwara State Government begged private individuals for drugs to stock its medical facilities before its two years' anniversary, the Ilorin West Local Government Area has followed suit. The Chairman appointed by Governor Abdulraham Abdulrazaq to oversee the LGA began his version of begging by drafting a letter with account number to solicit funds from the public.  The council is asking for money from private individuals on behalf of the government to execute some public projects already budgeted for. In a letter dated June 3, 2021, titled "Request for Financial Assistance to Execute Enumeration Area Demarcation (EAD) project for Ilorin West Local Government" and obtained by SaharaReporters, the council is requesting N250,000 from private individuals across the state. The letter was signed by Prof Muhammed A Siddiq, who is the chairman, Finance Committee on behalf of the council Chairman.  A source told SaharaReporters that the council chairman "was so insensitive to send letters, not only to the All Progressives Congress bigwigs but also to some notable Peoples Democratic Party members, requesting for N250,000 from each of them." The letter partly reads, "I write on behalf of the Honourable Chairman, Alhaji Muktar Tosho, and the entire people of the local government to request for financial assistance from you. The fund raised will be utilised by a 13-member committee towards ensuring and facilitating a successful Enumeration Area Demarcation exercise for the local government. "The exercise is politically and economically important and cannot be overemphasised as a tool in bargaining for political power at all levels of governance." The committee's account number, which belongs to one Alhaji Aluko Aliyu Amasa, was provided in the letter. "This is what governance has been reduced to under Abdulrazaq Government in Kwara. Since 1999, we have not heard of the government begging for funds from citizens to execute projects of the state despite the huge allocations voted to each local government. "Recall that a report was released this morning on financial misappropriation taking place in the 16 local government areas of the state by people appointed to oversee the councils," another top source, who got the letter, stated.