The Senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Tolu Odebiyi, has raised the alarm over herdsmen invasion of some communities in the Yewa North Local government area of Ogun State.This follows the murder of three residents, who fled the crisis in Igangan, Oyo State to seek refuge in the Sagada, Imeko/Afon area of the Ogun State. Senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Tolu Odebiyi
eParliament NG They were reportedly killed by suspected herdsmen who trailed the victims to the area.The lawmaker called on security agencies to ensure the protection of lives and property in and around the local government area and Ogun State at large. He noted that it is now expedient to develop a coordinated security structure to strengthen internal security.A statement from his media aide read, “As part of renewed commitment to making Ogun West Senatorial District safe and secure, the Senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Sen. Tolu Odebiyi has raised the alarm over fleeing Igangan killer herdsmen making incursions into Sagada in Imeko/Afon and other adjoining areas in Yewa North Local Government area of Ogun State after the widely reported killing of residents of Igangan in Oyo State. 



See Also






Insecurity
How Fulani Herdsmen Attacked Oyo Community In Vehicles, Motorbikes, Killed Over 10 People—Residents
0 Comments
19 Hours Ago “The Ogun West Senator who is deeply concerned about the current spate of killings that pervade the length and breadth of the country described this act as alarming. “Recent report has it that three persons were killed in Imeko, Ogun State by fleeing herdsmen from Igangan in Oyo State, on Sunday, 6th June, 2021. The victims, according to the report, also confirmed by the Balogun of Imeko Isale, Chief Ganiu Akinyele were Femi Bara, John Taiwo and Tunde Taiwo. The victims were killed and the motorcycle, they rode on, taken away while coming from Ologede around 11 pm on Sunday. “The Senator calls on security agencies to live up to their responsibilities in stemming the tide and addressing this troubling trend in our society by beefing up security in and around Yewa North and Ogun State as a whole. ”The Senator further said that, this is expedient, as there is a need to come together to develop a coordinated security structure with the aim of strengthening the internal security by monitoring all our forests and communities.” "As a government, we cannot sit idle or fold our arms and watch as our people are being terrorised and murdered in cold blood. We all need to close ranks and come up with strategies to save the lives of the people we serve. The situation is becoming unbearable,” Odebiyi added. The Senator also sympathises with all the innocent souls that have been murdered by killer herdsmen.