The police in Imo State have arrested a native doctor allegedly responsible for spiritually fortifying members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its militant arm, the Eastern Security Network (ESN). A statement by the spokesperson for state police command, SP Bala Elkana, on Wednesday disclosed this. According to the statement, nine people were also arrested including those allegedly responsible for attacking the country home of the state governor, Hope Uzodinma, were also arrested.  During the attack by gunmen on the governor's residence, two security guards were reportedly killed. The statement read, "In consonance with the mandate given to the operatives of the Command by IGP Alkali Baba Usman to fish out all criminal elements in the state and restore normalcy to the state as soon as feasible, and in tandem with the determination and directive of the Commissioner of Police Imo state CP Abutu Yaro,fdc, on the 8/6/21 at about 1630 hrs, Tactical teams of the Command through diligent and painstaking investigations, stormed Ukwuorji, Mbaitoli Local Government Area, along Onitsha Road, and arrested one EZEUGO ORDU "M" 65 years old, a native of Ubachima, Omuma, Oru West LGA. "He confessed to be a member of IPOB/ESN, and made useful statements to the Police as regards to the recent attacks on police stations as well as the residence of Governor Hope Uzodinma. "He further led operatives of the Command to the IPOB/ESN camp, a bush close to Njaba River, nine persons were arrested at the criminal hideout while they were planning another attack. Assorted charms were recovered from them. "However, two (2) out of the nine arrested in the hideout, CHINEDU NWAKAIRE "M" aka ONE DOOR, 48 yrs old UZOAMAKA UGOANYANWU "M", (thier native Doctor) 40 years old, were identified to be part of the hoodlums that attacked the private residence of Gov. Hope Uzodinma and also some police stations as well. They confessed to the crime, and also stated their roles during the operations. "Furthermore, the CP used the opportunity to reiterate the call on members of the IPOB/ESN, or any other criminal syndicate operating in the state especially those who stole police arms and ammunition to voluntarily surrender themselves to enable them get 'soft landing', or they will be arrested and made to face the full wrath of the law, as the Command will do everything possible to rid Imo state of crime and criminality."