Former presidential candidate, Omoyele Sowore has said he was at a Federal High Court in Abuja, the nation’s capital to see that Nnamdi Kanu got justice but had been arraigned and conveyed to the custody of the police. Leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Kanu was arrested in the United Kingdom and extradited to Nigeria to face trial over allegations of treason levelled against him by the Nigerian government.  However, the human rights activist has said he fears for the safety of the leader of the pro-Biafra separatist group as he was blindfolded, handcuffed and his legs were chained. “I’m here to see that Nnamdi Kanu gets justice, but unfortunately he has been moved to be detained. I fear for his safety. He was hooded. This is despicable. This just shows that we are in the Banana Republic," he said. Sowore also stated that Kanu has the right to agitate for self-determination, especially in a system that has kept denying Nigerians their rights, while adding that he has been a victim of inhumane treatment from the Nigerian government as well. “The way he was treated was despicable. The system has a way of abducting people and bringing them to court. I have been abducted like that before. There is nothing wrong with asking for self-determination. Nnamdi Kanu has rights to ask for self-determination,” Sowore added. Kanu was swiftly transported to Court 2 where the presiding judge Justice Murtala Nyanko told the prosecution lawyer, Shuaib Labaran to notify the defence counsel of the new date for the continuation of the trial. Journalists were prevented from filming Kanu as he was shielded and taken through the back door. The prosecution applied that Kanu jumped bail and wanted him to be remanded at DSS custody. Justice Murtala Nyanko has adjourned the matter to July 26, 2021. The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), Tuesday, had earlier declared that Kanu was captured by the operatives of Nigeria's security intelligence. Kanu was on October 14, 2015, arraigned by the Nigerian Government over allegations of terrorism, money laundering, treason, etc. On March 28, 2019, his bail condition was revoked by Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court.