The Chairman, South-East Security Committee, Obi Umahi has resigned from the position. On August 31, 2019, members of the South-East Governors Forum had appointed Umahi as the chairman of the committee. Obi Umahi The Committee was charged to draft a framework for the establishment of a South-East joint security outfit to cater to the security needs of the zone. Finally, on April 11, 2021, South-East governors decided to take their destinies into their hands and address the fast-deteriorating security situation in the region with the unveiling of the new security outfit codenamed Ebube Agu. Ebube Agu, meaning fear of a lion in Ibo, is fashioned after the Southwest security outfit, Amotekun, launched early last year amidst furore from the security institutions. But Umahi, a former General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division Nigerian Army, in his resignation letter dated June 4, 2021, titled, “Resignation As Chairman South East Security Committee – Ebubeagu,” and addressed to the Chairman of the South-East Governor’s Forum disclosed that his Committee was never funded neither was office provided for them through the duration, Punch reports. The letter read in part, “Since this Security Committee was formed, we deliberated and agreed on ways to raise security consciousness down to the community level in Igbo land, mode of operations, logistics and some types of equipment required, such as drones, vehicles, etc. We also crafted the Concept of SE Security. “Additionally, I chaired a 21-man Committee set up to draft a legal framework for the SE Security outfit. The committee was composed of members of the SE Security committee, the Attorney Generals of the five South-East States and some prominent Igbo sons and daughters. The 21-man Legal Framework Committee was funded to completion by the Governor of Ebonyi State. “On 11th April 2021, SE Governors announced the formation of EBUBEAGU at Owerri. Subsequently, the draft legal framework produced by the 21-man Committee was reviewed by SE Security Committee members and the Attorney Generals of the five SE States to suit South East Ebubeagu Security outfit.” “The SE Security Committee thoroughly prepared and submitted the modalities, including the structure, for the take-off of EBUBEAGU to the Governors’ Forum during the security of South East Governors’ Forum, attended by the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide and some other Igbo leaders presented a request that Ebubeagu should be jointly rolled out as a matter of urgency and also funded by the Government of the five SE States. From inception to date, SE Security Committee was never funded at all in any capacity and not even an office space was provided. “At this juncture that EBUBEAGU will soon come fully on-stream, I respectfully request that Your Excellencies kindly permit me to resign my appointment as the chairman, SE Security Committee. In the spirit of my love to serve Ndigbo, I can assure you that I will always be available to advise on the success of EBUBEAGU at no cost, just as I served as the Chairman of South East Security Committee from 31 August 2019 till date at no cost directly or indirectly to the five South East State Government, groups and individual. I highly appreciate Your Excellencies for the opportunity you gave me to serve Ndigbo. “Please be assured of my loyalty, respect and accept my highest regards of your esteemed considerations.” The letter was copied to the President General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, George Obiozor and Director-General, South East Governors’ Forum.