The Parliament Members the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) have advocated for regional collaboration to tackle the worsening insecurity in Nigeria.  The Parliamentarians made the call in Abuja on Thursday following the presentation of a Country Report of the Nigerian delegation highlighting the outbreak of insecurity across the country.  According to the parliamentarians, Nigeria holds a major point in the sub-region and the rising insecurity and communal clashes in the country have the capacity to impact negatively on neighbouring nations.  Honourable Shaka Sama, an Independent Representative from Sierra-Leone bemoaned the increasing level of insecurity across the region as presented by most member states in their reports.  He observed that it would be tough to sustain economic development in the region given the worrisome level of insecurity within the jurisdiction of the member countries, according to VON.  “We have to mobilise concerted efforts of all ECOWAS institutions, the Authority of Heads of State and Government to look at the factors responsible for the security challenges and how to end them.”  “Nigeria is very strategic to the sub-region and concerted efforts to end Nigeria’s insecurity will help tackle the insecurity in other countries of the region.”  “A threat to peace and stability in a place is also a threat to peace and stability everywhere.”  “We have to work together as a region to stop this problem because a lot of countries in the West are benefiting from our insecurity,” Sama said.  Similarly, Honourable Califa Seidi, a representative from Guinea Bissau said if Nigeria, the biggest country in the region could face security challenge of the prevailing magnitude, then it meant the region was truly not safe.  Seidi, therefore, urged ECOWAS institutions to do what must be done to tackle the challenge.  “It is important for ECOWAS to collaborate, particularly the Authority of Heads of State and Government to adopt effective measures to tackle the menace.”  “It has become a concern for us all Member States and we have to give serious thought to it because our citizens are dying and it is impacting negatively on our economy,” Seidi said.  Honourable Sani Boucary, the third deputy Speaker and representative from the Niger Republic, commended Nigeria and its Armed Forces for being at the forefront of interventions across the region.  Boucary also commended Nigeria for the leading role it is playing to ensure political stability in the region. He also said all recommendations made would be duly noted and transmitted to the appropriate authorities.  The delegation decried the spate of unrestrained violence, abduction, and killings by terrorist groups, bandits, and other criminal elements.