The Coalition of Northern Groups, CNG says President Muhammadu Buhari’s comments about Igbo genocide was empty and absolutely unpresidential. A statement, Wednesday, signed by the spokesman for the group, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, said the comment showed that Buhari had lost total control of the security of the country. Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG). The Northern group also said since the strength of Nigerians from the South-East lie on their youths, the country should allow them to have their wish of the sovereign nation of Biafra which they are clamouring for. President Buhari had earlier said, “Many of those misbehaving today are too young to be aware of the destruction and loss of lives that occurred during the Nigerian Civil War. Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand.” See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Twitter Deletes Buhari’s ‘Genocidal Tweet’ After Condemnation By Nigerians
0 Comments
4 Hours Ago This statement was greeted with fury and disapproval of Nigerians, following which the social media giant, Twitter deleted it. Reacting, CNG stated that the presidential tweet merely speaks volume of the admission of failure and loss of capacity. "We find it ridiculous that most parts of the President's tweet concentrated more attention to infrastructure than on the lives of citizens that are wasted daily with virtually no response from the authorities. "The President's revelation that most of those involved in the current agitation for secession are those who have not witnessed the 1967 civil war is a vindication of our position that the only reasonable option to ensure a more secure future is for the Igbo to be allowed to have their wish for a Biafran nation. "The fact that the strength of the Igbo agitation rests on youths who are mainly below the ages of 50, with diseased mindsets induced by their forefathers and encouraged by their political, cultural and religious leaders to take up arms against the Nigerian state and Northerners, has rendered the nation's unity negotiable. "It is therefore unreasonable for those older Nigerians who are mostly above 70 to insist that the unity of Nigeria is sacrosanct whereas the people executing the dangerous Southeast secession agenda are almost entirely below 50. "It is time for the Nigerian state and all stakeholders to wake to the reality that the only remaining option to avoid a civil war is for the Igbo to be allowed to have the Biafra they have used intermittently for decades to destabilise the nation and deny peace to other components of the country," Sulaiman said in the statement. The CNG urged the people of the North in any part of the country to remain calm and resolute with the guarantee that they are taking steps to ensure the actualisation of Biafra so the rest of the country would know peace. "We hereby make allowance of the next 30 days to see how Buhari would make true his threat to deal with insurgency, banditry and above all, the greater threat posed by IPOB or how he will handle the entire Igbo leadership that openly back and embolden them," he said.