Echechofu Ali Paul, a fresh graduate of the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi was among those murdered by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Odugbeho community, Agatu Local Government Area of Benue State. Paul was among the over 40 persons killed in the community following a coordinated attack carried out by suspected herders on Sunday.  It was gathered that the Business Administration graduate recently returned home after completing his final-year project and was waiting for his National Youth Service Corps mobilisation. He was also a former Secretary of the National Association of Agatu Students (NAAS). NAAS in a statement issued on Tuesday, signed by Adameh Sunday, Speaker NAAS Senate-Assembly & Publicity Secretary, described Echecholu as dedicated, humble and committed to the association. The statement read, "I, on behalf of the NAAS Federal University of Agriculture Makurdi, condemn the unprovoked attack on the people of Odugbehu by Fulani herdsmen in the late hour of yesterday, 6th June, 2021 in Agatu local government area of Benue State. "The Entire NAAS Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi wants to bring to the notice of the public and NAAS national of the demise of her students during an attack at Odugbehu community on Friday which led to the death of Comrade Ali Echechofu, the ex-Secretary of the association. “The late Comrade Ali Echechofu was a graduate of Business Administration from the Prestigious College of the Management Science, Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi. The deceased, until his painful demise, was a figure of development for our dear association, very dedicated, humble and committed to services until his departure. “On this note, we call and appeal to NAAS National, led by Rt Comrade Adakole Jonah, the Students Union President, National Association of Agatu Students to come to our aid to mourn our loss as plans are ongoing to visit the families of the deceased in the relocated area soon. We look forward to hearing from you, Mr president and your team. “In this same vein, I'm using this medium to call on all the Agatu students to be vigilant and avoid any unnecessary travelling during this period because of the insecurities within the area and also urge us to pray for peace and progress of our dear home. “May the soul of the faithful departed rest in peace! Victoria Acerta.”