The Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide, Igbo sociocultural association, has urged the Muhammadu Buhari-led government to follow the law strictly in dealing with the case of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The Nigerian government had on Tuesday announced Kanu’s arrest and extradition to Nigeria to continue facing trial. Ohaneze Ndigbo He was subsequently arraigned blindfolded before Binta Nyako, a Judge of the Federal High Court in Abuja. Kanu is facing charges bordering on treasonable felony instituted against him at the court in response to years of campaign for the independent Republic of Biafra through IPOB. He was granted bail in April 2017 for health reasons but skipped bail after flouting some of the conditions given to him by the court. In a broadcast via Radio Biafra, Kanu boasted that the Nigerian court lacks the capacity to try him, describing the court as a Kangaroo court. He said the judge who asked his sureties to produce him should have asked the army why they invaded his residence. Commenting on his rearrest, Ohanaeze Ndigbo worldwide in a statement by Okechukwu Isiguzoro, its Secretary-General, said Kanu’s refusal to listen to Igbo leaders’ advice led him to his present predicament. The group advised the Nigerian government to handle the IPOB leader’s case carefully in order to prevent violent revolts from his followers. The statement read, “Nnamdi Kanu’s refusal to adhere to the advice of Igbo leaders, elders, and political leaders is the outcome of what had befallen him, he made a lot of enemies especially those that would have saved him and Federal Government will never lose grip on him again. “We don’t think that any Igbo leader will stick out his/her neck for him, his re-arrest will eventually bring peace and stability to the region and averted another civil war that was raging on. “Federal Government should handle the situation carefully because his large followers of IPOB wouldn’t resort to violent revolts, his trial should be strictly based on the laws of the land, they shouldn’t kill him because it will destabilise the entire country.”