Yoruba freedom fighter, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has warned that no harm must befall Ifeanyi Ejiofor, counsel for the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). Igboho made this known in a statement issued on Wednesday by his spokesperson, Olayomi Koiki. Ifeanyi Ejiofor In the statement, the Yoruba agitator noted that Ejiofor is not only a lawyer for IPOB and its leader, Nnamdi Kanu but also Igboho and the Yoruba agitators. It was stated that the lawyer, who is a personal lawyer of former aviation minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, stood on many occasions for the Yoruba agitators. Igboho reiterated his former stance that an attack on IPOB or the people of the South-East is an attack on him and other Yoruba agitators.



See Also






Military
EXPOSED: Why Nigerian Army Is Desperately Looking For IPOB Lawyer, Ejiofor— Military Sources
0 Comments
1 Day Ago "We stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this battle," he said. The freedom fighter, therefore, warned that should anything happen to Ejiofor, anyone involved in the attack will not go scot-free. The statement read, “Chief Sunday Igboho has waited for days for a possible reaction from the relevant security agencies on the reason for the bloody and violent invasion on the Anambra state country home of Barrister Ifeanyi Ejiofor's but all to no avail. “Those that attacked his home tried to assassinate him and in the process, they killed his personal assistant and several other people in his home and burnt their bodies to ashes. They did this as Barrister watched the whole episode helplessly from where he hid in his home. ”For the records, Barrister Ifeanyi Ejiofor is not only the lawyer to IPOB and Mazi Nnamdi Kanu but also a lawyer to our leader Chief Sunday Adeyemo and our group. He is also a personal lawyer to our dear brother and highly respected uncle, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, former Minister of Aviation and he is a friend and supporter of the sons and daughters of Oduduwa. "On many occasions, he has stood in for us and our members, and today we are standing in for him. We have said it before and we say it again that any attack on IPOB or the people of the East is an attack on us. We stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this battle. "It is on the strength of these hard facts that we wish to warn the relevant security agencies that if anything onward happens to Barrister Ejiofor that the consequences will be serious, and no one directly or indirectly connected with this desperate hunt for innocent life, will go scot-free. "We know the individuals who are funding this whole thing and we wish to put it on record that this is the second time they tried to take our lawyer's life. It must be the last. Such an attempt must never happen to him again. “We demand that all Barrister Ejiofor's domestic staff that were abducted during this bloody attack on his peaceful home be released by the security agencies without further ado. “We counsel for peaceful co-existence. Let wise counsel prevail."