The wife of the Osun State Governor, Mrs Kafayat Oyetola, gathered hundreds of women on Wednesday In Osogbo, the state capital, for a prayer programme that gulped millions of naira as directed by the Nigerian Governors’ Wives Forum. Kafayat, whose husband, Gboyega Oyetola, has not paid pensions of workers who retired as far back as 2017, said the programme was to seek the face of God for Nigeria. Kafayat Oyetola At the inter-religious prayer session which was held on Wednesday, women from two religious circles were led in prayer over incessant killings, kidnappings, banditry, among other challenges currently bedevilling the country.SaharaReporters learnt that millions of naira were spent on mobilisation and refreshments for the event. Speaking, the Osun first lady said Nigeria needed divine intervention in all aspects of life. She said, “The challenge of insecurity has continued to assume various dimensions. They are dimensions that affect every aspect of our daily living. “This development has raised concern for every Nigerian. This is the reason why we, (the Nigerian Governors Wives Forum {NGWF}), have resolved to have this country-wide programme of prayer. “It is also pertinent at this juncture to call on each one of us to begin to change our approach to issues of nationhood. We must start a cause of behaviour change. Let us change our attitude in relation to one another, in relation to community affairs, in relation to our state affairs, and in relation to our national affairs. “Yes, Nigeria is a nation with a large number of churches, mosques, and homes of traditional religions. It is also a fact that Nigeria is one of the nations that seriously need healing in all aspects of life. This healing can come only through the divine intervention of God. “However, the intervention will require that we work. We must start from our homes. Let’s change the culture that places money as the ultimate value of a relationship. Let us enthrone virtue, let us enthrone love, let us bring back the virtue of humanity that our great grandparents handed down to us. “Mothers should begin to teach our children these abandoned virtues. They were virtues that made our society greater than many of those that our children run to today. We can still reclaim our land. Time is ticking for this individual and collective intervention. “I, therefore, plead with our mothers, the teachers in our schools, our religious leaders, our trade unions to make this a key assignment. We should make messages and teachings of these virtues to be at the forefront. We should de-emphasize the love of money as the ultimate value. We should begin to imbue our children with a sense of dignity, love, and service to the community. This will generate significant wealth for our communities and our homes. It would generate peace of mind and safety. It happened before in our nation. We can make it happen again.”