The Court of Appeal in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, will tomorrow, Tuesday, begin the hearing of the suit filed by human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, against the Federal Government over the unjust bail conditions given to him in the trumped-up charges over the RevolutionNow struggle. The sitting is slated for 9am as several Nigerians have called for the “vacation of the stringent bail conditions” on Sowore, which were read out in a ruling by Justice Ifeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court in Abuja.  “We will be at the Court of Appeal in Abuja tomorrow regarding our motion to vacate the cruel, inhuman and unjust bail conditions imposed upon me by Justice Ifeoma Ojukwu of the Federal High Court, Abuja. Time is 9am,” Sowore tweeted on Monday. The court paper reads, “In the Court of Appeal between Omoyele Sowore as the appellant and the Federal Republic of Nigeria as the respondent. The appellants’ counsel are; Funmi Falana (Mrs), Femi Falana, Falana and Falana chambers.” SaharaReporters had in February reported that a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja dismissed the application of the Nigerian government through its prosecutors to revoke the bail of human rights’ activist, Sowore, who is being tried on trumped-up charges for leading the RevolutionNow agitation. The Federal Government had moved to revoke Sowore’s bail and to remand him in prison – an application which the judge turned town. The Federal High Court has been hearing the RevolutionNow case, since operatives of the Department of State Services on August 5, 2019, arrested and kept Sowore incommunicado for several days. At the resumed sitting in February, the judge dismissed the application to revoke bail because Sowore showed up in court. She gave her ruling that a fine of N100,000 must be paid to the prosecution because one of the defence counsel did not show up. While addressing newsmen after the court session, Sowore had said, “The Federal Government had rushed to court to apply for the revocation of our bail. The reason why they are doing that is because they don’t have a real case against us. They are looking for different ways through which they can return us to prison. That is also the reason why they arrested us on January 1, 2021, and kept us 11 days in different prisons across Abuja. “This is desperation on the part of the Federal Government. They have kept me in Abuja for over a year and they have plans again to jail me. They have presented only one witness in this case in one year and a half. This shows they have no case.”