Five persons have so far lost their lives in the gas explosion that occurred on Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way, in the Maryland area of Lagos State, on Thursday night. Lagos State Commissioner for Special Duties, Tayo Bamgbose-Martins, revealed this while speaking with journalists at the scene of the incident on Friday morning.   PHOTONEWS: Huge Fire Raging Around Sheraton Hotel, Total Gas Station In Ikeja Area Of Lagos After Explosion pic.twitter.com/JMcpNvZoNA  He said three people died instantly at the scene of the incident which occurred around 11 pm on Thursday, while the other two died in the hospital. Bamgbose-Martins said, “Lives were lost. We had about 13 people rescued but we understand that out of the 13 people, we’ve lost two of them which means that we’ve only rescued 11. We’ve recovered three bodies again this morning. They’ve started moving them away from here.” Bamgbose-Martins also said that investigation is ongoing, adding that a special committee by the state government, which has agencies of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation as members is working to end gas explosions in the state. Similarly, the spokesman for the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Nosa Okunbor, confirmed that five persons lost their lives in the explosion. See Also






Accident
Lagos Tanker Explosion Injured 13, Destroyed 25 Cars— Official
0 Comments
8 Hours Ago Also, the Director-General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Olufemi Damilola Oke-Osanyitolu assured Lagos residents that efforts had been put in place to prevent secondary explosion in the area. “Ongoing post-disaster assessment by our responders has unearthed 3 yet-to-be-identified male bodies in the rubble. First responders (LASEMA Respond Unit Fire) have returned to the scene to avert any secondary explosion. “Members of the public are encouraged to take alternative routes as much as possible. Further, update to follow,” Oke-Osanyintolu said. Over 22 vehicles were burnt in the inferno that followed the explosion while the Ogun State Property and Investment Corporation Plaza was badly damaged.