Operatives of the National Drug Law and Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, have arrested a medical doctor, Jane Chioma Ofoma, for selling biscuits produced with Cannabis Sativa for her online catering service, Omachi's kitchen. Ofoma was arrested on Saturday, 19th June 2021, when operatives of the Edo state command of NDLEA stormed her operational base in Auchi.  After arresting her, 94 pieces of cookies produced with Cannabis Sativa were seized from her During interrogation, the 26-year-old graduate of medicine from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, confessed that she baked the cookies with 'skunk'. Skunk is high-potency cannabis made from unpollinated cannabis plants which naturally contain higher levels of THC. THC (Tetrahydrocannabinol) is the substance that gives recreational users the 'stoned' feelings they seek from the drug, but can also cause nasty side effects, including paranoia and hallucinations. Also, 30-year-old Emmanuel Ehiramhen of 10 Egan Street, Ekpoma, Edo State was arrested by the agency for dealing in crack cocaine. In the same vein, a 52-year-old ex-military officer, Sergeant Ibrahim Musa was caught in Kwara State with 12.167 kilogrammes of Arizona (cannabis Sativa), 4g of cocaine, and 25g of flunitrazepam, Vanguard reports. The suspect was nabbed on Thursday, June 17, 2021, at Oke-Odo, Tanke area of Ilorin, at the point of delivery. According to reports, Musa had just arrived from Lagos to supply his customers. Musa who worked in the maintenance department at Abati Army Barracks, Lagos, from where he was deployed to 117 Battalion in Chibok, Borno State before he deserted, had arrived in Ilorin in company with his wife, Basirat Musa. Musa revealed during interrogation that while in Chibok, he got the connection of a supplier of Arizona (Cannabis) and other drugs in Lagos. He said immediately he deserted the Army in October 2020, he quickly contacted the unidentified person. Musa said he decided to go into the illicit drug business to enable him to fend for his two wives and three children. The suspect revealed that the latest journey was his second trip to Ilorin to deliver the drugs and that he decided to travel with one of his wives who was not aware of his mission to Ilorin. Reacting to the arrests, Chairman/CEO of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (rtd), commended the Edo and Kwara state commands of the agency for their vigilance and commitment to the goal of ridding Nigeria of the menace of illicit drug trafficking and abuse.