The Commissioner of Police in Imo state, Abutu Yaro, says gallant policemen of the command have repelled attacks on police divisions in Umundugba, Isu council area, and Omuma.  Yaro disclosed this in a statement signed on his behalf by the command’s spokesman, Bala Elkana, on Tuesday. File photo used to illustrate story. He said that the hoodlums attacked the police facilities with petrol bombs, but later met heavy resistance from the police.  On 31st May, 2021 at about 1530 hours some hoodlums in their numbers launched an attack on Police Division Umundugba, Isu Local Government Area, but were repelled by the policemen on duty. They stormed the station in three Sienna buses, one Avalon saloon car and about eight motorcycles,” the statement read.  “The hoodlums were engaged in a gun battle, during the duel, the hoodlums threw a couple of petrol bombs at the station which fell at the exhibit room. The attackers were eventually suppressed and they made a retreat, having suffered huge defeat and a number of casualties on their side.  “The police with the help of some members of the community were able to put out the fire. A similar attempt was made by some hoodlums to attack Omuma Police Division but were equally repelled by the gallant policemen on duty. No life was lost in the two attacks and there was no casualty on the part of the officers.  “The CP commended the efforts of the men for repelling the attacks on the two police stations and keeping the state safe. Meanwhile, patrols and surveillance activities are ongoing; members of the public are enjoined to go about their lawful duties without fear.”  Imo state has been experiencing series of attacks lately, especially on security formations.  On April 5, armed men invaded the headquarters of the Imo State Police Command and the Nigerian Correctional Service in Owerri, burnt the facilities and freed over 1,800 inmates.  Unfortunately, one person suspected to be a fleeing prison inmate was hit by a stray bullet.  Few days after, the country home of the state governor, Hope Uzodinma in Omuma, Oru East Local Government Area of the state was invaded by gunmen.  During the attack, they burnt part of the building and razed some vehicles in the compound, killing at least a security official.