The Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Oyo State chapter has declared Friday as a day of prayer against insecurity in the state and the country. This was part of resolutions reached on Monday, between the state government and CAN during a stakeholders' meeting.  The state government, represented by the Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun, and the Executive Assistant on Administration, Rev. Idowu Ogedengbe and CAN agreed to go spiritual during the meeting, as the Christian body vowed to hold a special praise, worship and prayer session to intercede for the state on Friday, July 2. The state government had met with Islamic and traditional leaders, where it was unanimously agreed that they would all work together to improve security. Olatunbosun noted that the state government resorted to seeking the intervention of religious stakeholders to forge a new front against insecurity in the state, Vanguard reports. “In a bid to renew our efforts against insecurity, Oyo state has been working tirelessly against insecurity in recent times. We have purchased needed gadgets and vehicles for security agents in the State and we will do more.” "However, we cannot do it alone, we apparently need to change our strategies and work with you religious stakeholders in the state. “We are meeting Christians and Christian body for a specific reason, which is to trigger a religious war against the devilish act of banditry, abduction, and insecurity in the state. “This government seeks to secure the state from insecurity and we will do so regardless of the state of the nation. “And as we redouble our efforts, we will never allow insecurity to divide us— this is why we have engaged representatives of all religion in the State: Christian, Muslim, and traditional Worshippers," he said. CAN Chairman in the state, Apostle (Col) Joshua Akinyemiju, said the body in partnership with the Chaplain of the state government house will commence a powerful intercession for the state. “Yes, insecurity is not exclusive to Oyo State, but we believe as Christians, we will not give in. We will intensify our efforts to pull down the stronghold of the enemy,” he said. There is growing insecurity in Oyo State worsened by attacks (killing and kidnapping) by suspected Fulani herdsmen, cult wars, and violence involving road transport workers.