Bandits, Friday morning invaded a village in Adamawa state and killed one person. The bandits in their numbers were said to have stormed Gadawaluwol village in the Yola-South Local Government Area of the state and killed one Yuguda Baleri. SaharaReporters Media Sale Adamu, a resident of the village who is also a member of the local security, known as the Hunters Group, told SaharaReporters that the bandits tied up the victim before shooting him dead. He said, "Yes, I'm a member of the Hunters Group, therefore I can confirm that bandits came to our village in the early hours of Friday at about 12am to 1:00am. "They came in their droves firing sporadically, and because they had superior fire power we were overwhelmed. "Unfortunately, they gain access to the house of one Yuguda Baleri, tied him up and shot him to death." A daughter of the deceased person, Aisha Baleri, also tearfully told our reporter that "my father was gruesomely murdered by some armed men who forcibly forced their way into our house last night". The Spokesperson for the police in the state, DSP Suleiman Nguroge has confirmed the incident, saying, "Yes, I can confirm the attack and the killing of one Yuguda Baleri. "The report we got in the early hours of Friday indicated that he was tied and killed and the corpse has been deposited at the mortuary. "The Commissioner of Police has accordingly directed the anti-homicde department to proceed with investigation. "The CP has ordered operatives to trail the assailants and bring them to justice. "The CP also wishes to assure residents that the command is poised to secure lives and property in the state." Meanwhile, the state police command has deployed personnel and assets against protesters ahead of tomorrow's nationwide protest. DSP Suleiman said, "The Adamawa State Police Command and other security agencies cannot fold their hands and watch hoodlums have a field day without taking steps to maintain law and order. "Hence, it is in view of this that the Commissioner of Police, CP Aliyu Adamu Alhaji, has deployed operational personnel and assets for the Joint Patrol in order to provide watertight security within Yola Metropolis and other parts of the state to stem the tide of criminal activities before, during and after the Democracy Day celebration. "To further strengthen emplaced strategies, the Command CP has ordered the ban on the use of the SPY number plates, Tinted Glasses and covered number plates used on SUV vehicles by some unauthorised individuals."