Former Lagos governor, Babatunde Raji Fashola, once blamed a robbery incident in the Lekki area of the state which involved the killing of three policemen on the visit of the then President, Goodluck Jonathan to the state. Fashola stated this at the Buhari-Meets-Nigerian-Entertainers programme which held in Lagos on May 12, 2015.  In a video on SaharaTV, Fashola alleged that the former President took all policemen meant for the security of many citizens and their equipment for himself alone, leaving vulnerable citizens without protection. Fashola, who is now the current Federal Minister of Works and Housing said, “Today is a very sad day because this afternoon we lost three policemen in a robbery in Lekki and it was the first of its type in a very long time. And I also know that perhaps what will be would have been but it was sad to see all our security vehicles and personnel deployed to protect one man. “All the vehicles we bought for the police were stationed to receive the President in Lagos while the citizens were left vulnerable. Those policemen have children. And tonight, their mothers will have to explain to them why daddy is not coming home. I pray for their souls to rest in peace…” Fashola, in the video, also noted the corruption in the Jonathan-led administration while indirectly recommending President Muhammadu Buhari to the attendees. “General Buhari said something that when he was Minister for Petroleum that this country was exporting finished products from the value of a hundred thousand barrels of crude oil, we were exporting, now we are importing and some people say you should come along on that journey, I don't know which way you want to go but I am not going on that journey. “We have seen how the supposed N3 billion that was supposed to be spent on the industry has gone. We have seen a lot of adverts, adverts that compare our leaders to Jesus Christ, adverts that compare them to people they can only dream about and we have seen them now in documentaries...”