The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) has listed the allegations against the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, saying he must continue his court trial in earnest. Malami, in the text of his press conference in Abuja on Tuesday, noted that the IPOB leader, apart from jumping bail, has been "accused of engaging in subversive activities that include inciting violence through television, radio and online broadcasts against Nigeria and Nigerian State and institutions."  The AGF and the Nigerian government have been accused by many Nigerians of shielding bandits in the North and a cleric close to them, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, while going for IPOB members and leaders in the South-East. Malami added on Tuesday in Abuja that Kanu was accused of instigating violence, especially in Southeastern Nigeria. The AGF said, "The self acclaimed leader of the proscribed secessionist IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, has been arrested through the collaborative efforts of Nigerian intelligence and security services.



See Also






Breaking News
Nigerian Government Arrests IPOB Leader, Nnamdi Kanu
0 Comments
12 Hours Ago "He has been brought back to Nigeria in order to continue facing trial after disappearing while on bail regarding 11 count charge against him. "Recent steps taken by the Federal Government saw to the interception of the fugitive Kanu on Sunday, the 27th day of June, 2021. "Nwannekaenyi Nnamdi Ngozichukwu Okwu-Kanu, born 25th day of September, 1967 at Afaraukwu, Abia State is a holder of Nigerian Passport No. A05136827 first issued 17th October 2013 at FESTAC, Lagos. "It is recalled that Kanu was arrested on 14th October, 2015 on 11 count charge bordering on terrorism, treasonable felony, managing an unlawful society, publication of defamatory matter, illegal possession of firearms and improper importation of goods, among others.



See Also






Legal
How IPOB Leader, Nnamdi Kanu Was Blindfolded, Handcuffed, Sneaked Into Abuja Court
0 Comments
10 Hours Ago "A judge at the Federal High Court, Abuja revoked Kanu's bail that was granted him on health ground and issued a bench warrant for his arrest on the same date, over his failure to appear in court for hearing. "He has, upon jumping bail, been accused of engaging in subversive activities that include inciting violence through television, radio and online broadcasts against Nigeria and Nigerian State and institutions. "Kanu was also accused of instigating violence, especially in the Southeastern Nigeria that resulted in the loss of lives and property of civilians, military, para military, police forces and destruction of civil institutions and symbols of authorities." SaharaReporters had earlier reported that Kanu was arrested in the United Kingdom and brought to the Federal High Court, Abuja by heavy security operatives. Kanu was blindfolded and sneaked into the courtroom by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) in handcuffs while his legs were also chained. He was hurriedly taken to Court 2 where the presiding judge told the prosecution lawyer, Shuaib Labaran to inform the defence counsel of the new date for the continuation of the trial. Journalists were prevented from filming Kanu as he was shielded and taken through the back door. The prosecution applied that Kanu jumped bail and wanted him to be remanded at DSS custody. The court granted the application. Justice Muritala Nyanko has adjourned the matter to July 26, 2021.