The CEO of Panic Alert Security System, George Uboh has accused the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and members of the Nigeria Police Force of frequently raiding his house in Abuja. In 2015, Uboh also accused the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) of diverting proceeds of recovered assets. Abubakar Malami But in 2016, he was arrested, convicted and later sentenced to three years imprisonment by Justice S. E. Aladetoyinbo of the Federal Capital Territory High Court Abuja. He was convicted for his alleged role in converting the property of the defunct Police Equipment Foundation to his own use though he denied the claims. Uboh's trials had continued with the constant raiding of his house by the security operatives. This, according to him, was as a result of the documentary evidence he has in his possession in respect of the petition he had submitted for the recovery of$25, 698, 363, 716.40 ($25.7 billion) to the federation account. Uboh had earlier petitioned the Senate Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions against MTN Nigeria Limited and the Attorney General of the Federation, alleging that they frustrated the recovery of $25, 698, 363, 716.40in connivance with the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the managing directors of Standard Chartered Bank, and Stanbic IBTC Bank, and some eminent Nigerians. In a similar vein, he also wrote a petition against the EFCC chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa and Access Bank, asking that they should explain the over N779 million Tafa Balogun funds that were diverted, the 4-year EFCC Access Bank statement that was expunged and the N1.993 trillion EFCC allegedly diverted from inception to 2013. The petition was also written against the past chairmen of the EFCC, including Nuhu Ribadu, Farida Waziri, Ibrahim Lamorde and Ibrahim Magu, and other persons/entities. An invitation from the Senate Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions showed scheduled dates for the hearing on each of the cases. DOCUMENTS: Senate to Guwn Closed Door Summons on Mtn, Efcc by Sahara Reporters on Scribd 