Some leaders of Southern Nigeria and the Middle Belt, under the auspices of the Nigerian Indigenous Nationalities Alliance for Self-determination (NINAS) have warned the international community against giving loans to the Nigerian Government, stating that "Nigeria is now a country with questionable sovereignty". Notable members of the group are former Military Vice-President of Nigeria, Commodore Ebitu Ukiwe (Rtd); former Governor of Plateau State, Jonah Jang; renowned historian and Second Republic member of the Senate, Banji Akintoye; former President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo; respected don, Prof. Yusuf Turaki, and 124 others. FILE PHOTO: Nigerian President Buhari at the United Nations
REUTERS In the statement, NINAS warned the World Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF), United Nations, African Union, European Union, United States, French, Chinese and British governments to cease giving loans to the Nigerian Government, stressing that borrowing a "disputed project" loan can only be considered an act of negligence. The statement signed by Otunba Shade Olukoya, Treasurer, Ilana Omo Oodua, and Chairman, Steering Committee of NINAS read, “Again, we remind the International Community that Nigeria is now a disputed project. This was articulated in our Press Conference of 16 December 2020, when we declared a Constitutional Force Majeure. "Subsequent activities as articulated at Press Conferences of 17 March 2021, and 17 April 2021 emphasise that Nigeria remains a disputed project. Knowing this and lending to a disputed project can only be considered negligence. "For the avoidance of doubt, the Indigenous Nations will not, and cannot be expected to repay such loans or allow their assets to be used as collateral to offset the loans.” NINAS is the multi-ethnic alliance of the indigenous peoples of the Middle Belt (part of the former Northern Region), Ilana Omo Oodua (the former Western Region), and the Lower Niger (Former Eastern & Mid-Western Regions). Although each group works separately in their blocs, they come together as the Movement for New Nigeria (MNN) Alliance.MNN is the alliance of the three platforms (MBC, IOO, and LNC) that are the keepers/custodians of the self-determination strategy. NINAS essentially is the alliance of the indigenous peoples of the Middle Belt, Oodua, and Lower Niger blocs seeking self-determination for each ethnic nationality.