Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, has emphasised the need to continue to fight poverty in the country, lamenting that some people have been recruited into the Boko Haram group with just N5,000.  The governor stated this while delivering an address to mark the 2021 democracy day and the second anniversary of his government. Borno State Governor, Prof Babagana Zulum Zulum claimed a lot had been achieved in terms of infrastructural development of the state and securing the people from the Boko Haram attack.  He said, “From records, we had experienced instances when insurgents offered as low as between 5,000 and 10,000 Naira to recruit some spies and smugglers of weapons.  “We needed to ensure that our good citizens had the support they needed, and they were not exposed to potential attractions for the incentives of insurgents.  “There was the risk that insurgents could, after making IDPs socially and economically vulnerable, also explore that vulnerability by offering food and cash incentives to recruit fighters who could even serve as their spies in communities.”  On his achievements, the governor said, “With shared commitments and with the strong goodwill, support and prayers from you, the people of Borno State, we are delivering 556 capital projects with 70% of the total already completed while 30 per cent are at various completion levels.  “Our projects, done with your support, include 194 capital projects on education, which encompass rehabilitation, completion, and new construction of Mega-size government technical colleges and primary schools in different communities.  “We have 63 capital projects on governance and another 63 capital projects on roads, transport, rural and urban development. Fifty-nine capital projects are being delivered on water and environment; while on health, we are delivering 58 capital projects that include the establishment of 74 primary healthcare centres across local government areas, rehabilitation of 8 General and specialist hospitals in MMC, Biu, Damboa, Monguno and Magumeri.”