The apex Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has blasted former Governor of Sokoto State, Aliyu Wamakko over comments the group claimed was capable of inciting ethnic cleansing and turmoil in the country. Wamakko, on Saturday, challenged the leaders of Southeast to stop the attacks of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on northerners living in their geo-political zone. File photo used to illustrate story. Wamakko, currently a senator representing Sokoto North, noted that the northern leaders would no longer douse tension among their followers if the attacks on northerners continued in the South-East. But in a statement issued on Monday by the Secretary-General of the group, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, Ohanaeze alleged that the North is responsible for all the uprisings in the South-East, ”to keep Igbo leaders busy with insecurity challenges and set traps for them (Igbo leaders) to fall in and get arrested.” It noted that the chaos in the South-East was caused by Northern leaders so they could retain Presidency in the North beyond 2023. The group noted that Wamakko was a hypocrite who could not proffer solutions to the insecurity challenges that had ravaged Northern Nigeria for years. The statement read, “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has cautioned former Sokoto Governor, Aliyu Wamakko over his impulsive comments which are without any iota of truth. “His comment is capable of inciting ethnic cleansing and turmoil in the country. It is laughable that the likes of Wamakko couldn't proffer solutions to the insecurity challenges in the North for the past 7 years, which the North incubated as a political instrument to oust power from former President Goodluck Jonathan and install the incumbent. ”The North is responsible for all the disaster in the South-East, considering an earlier warning by the USA Embassy Abuja, 'that Northern bandits and killer herdsmen are changing positions to Southern Nigeria to wreak havoc and destabilise the zones'. “Northern elders are behind the chaos in Nigeria as a ploy to retain the Presidency in the North beyond 2023, as they did to Jonathan in 2015, so they exported violence to the South-East to keep Igbo leaders busy with insecurity challenges and set traps for them (Igbo leaders) to fall in and get arrested. “We are amazed at how someone who couldn't remove a speck of dust in his eyelashes could see the remedy for the log of wood in the eyes of Ndigbo. Rhetorically, Wamakko's assertion that Igbo leaders are behind the scenes motivating the violence in the South-East, exposed the northern secrets of supporting bandits and Boko Haram for economic and political reasons. “The silence of Igbo leaders is golden and it will generate confusion in the camps of sponsors of terror in the South-East.”