Senior Pastor of the Christ Apostolic Miracle Ministry, Apostle Paul Okikijesu says President Muhammadu Buhari will not finish his tenure unless he changes from his ways. The Christian cleric said God has rejected Buhari’s government and will be handed over to someone very close to him, just as it happened to a Biblical character, King Saul.  “Thus says the Lord: If the President refuses to quickly make amendments during this period, I will change hands concerning his government, says the Lord God of hosts,” Okikijesu said. Speaking further, the cleric said that the activities of the Presidents of Nigeria, Ivory Coast and Ghana do not please God. “Thus says the Lord: If these leaders refuse to take steps of rectification, My judgment will come upon them mightily. “If they refuse to pay attention to the voice of I the Lord from the mouths of the religious advisers; if they elevate humans or idols more than I the Lord; then the judgment of I the Lord will come upon them and I the Lord will work with a harsh judgment hand. “They will not be able to continue their tenure because their position will be given to their neighbours that are better than them. That is, the people who will occupy their posts are beside them; the positions will be taken away from them, says the Lord God of hosts, unless they repent and amend their ways. “They should write down this period; if they refuse to take steps of rectification; if they refuse to turn to I the Lord; if they refuse to turn to the God of heavens who is the God of the Hebrews; God the Father, God the Son and God the Holy Spirit; if they refuse to ask the religious advisers who are filled with the Holy Spirit, to inquire what the Lord wants and expects from their governance. If they refuse to take all these steps, then, they will be removed from office, and their positions will be given to their neighbours who are better than them. “They will lose their positions, and the judgment of I the Lord will come upon them. They will witness a severe hand of judgment; because what I the Lord had spoken concerning their souls will happen, so they should believe that there is no powerful being that has power over his/her own soul. “Thus says the Lord: I the Lord is the owner of the souls of these Presidents, and I the Lord can ask for their souls anytime that I like; with no one who can obstruct or delay me. “Thus says the Lord of hosts: It is not Apostle Paul Okikijesu who owns the souls of these Presidents, but it is I the Lord God of hosts who is God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Israel. I, the God of their forefathers is the One who owns their souls. I the Lord can ask for their souls anytime that I like, and their posts will be given to their neighbours who are better than them,” he declared.