Popular Yoruba Freedom fighter, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho has given a fresh eviction notice to killer-herdsmen in the South-West, stressing that he will ensure they are all smoked out of the forests very soon. Igboho stated this in an interview anchored by his spokesperson, Oluyomi Koiki, noting that he would never give any order without monitoring compliance. Sunday Igboho According to him, the issue of agitation for the Yoruba nation is non-negotiable and no Jupiter can stop it, Vanguard reports. Igboho also insisted that no governor can stop Yoruba nation rally, noting if any governor says that, it will not be obeyed because Yorubaland belongs to all Yoruba indigenes. He further warned criminal elements hibernating in the forests to leave because henceforth, there must not be any issue of kidnapping again in the zone. Igboho, who spoke in Yoruba, said, “How can six million people be commanding about 250 million of other Nigerians? Marriage is not by force. We can’t live with you again. The Yoruba nation is a vehicle of salvation and I want all Yoruba to board the vehicle and have their seats. “How can we go back when we are almost at our destination? Those who have not joined us should do so now because there’s no election come 2023. Yoruba will go.” He appealed to all youths not to insult elders in Yorubaland, including the traditional rulers. “Please, don’t insult our elders again. I don’t want anyone to cast aspersions on our traditional rulers that they have collected money. No, don’t do that. Even, if they were given money, it’s part of the commonwealth that was stolen. “Don’t fight the police or any security agents. Let’s do our rally peacefully. Tell President (Muhammadu) Buhari, if he doesn’t understand Yoruba, tell him in English that we don’t want bandits in our zone again. Work has begun already and from Monday, I will begin combing all forests in Yorubaland. “I want all Fulani in Yorubaland to leave. I, myself will monitor compliance with the eviction notice. I don’t issue an order without ensuring compliance. As from Monday, we don’t want to hear of any kidnapping in Yorubaland again. I will show them the stuff Yoruba people are made of. “We will tell them there is a clear distinction between Yoruba and Fulani. All these weapons they are brandishing, we will collect them with ease. We will blow ‘wind’ into all the forests in Yorubaland. If we don’t prove to these people who we are now, they will be encroaching on our lands when we achieve our Yoruba nation.” He challenged anyone who claimed to have given him money regarding his agitation to come forward and say it out. “If you know you have given me money that I should shelve Yoruba nation struggle, come out and say it now. No amount of money can stop me from going ahead with this struggle. You can’t kill me. Kill who? Throw a bomb at me? If you throw a bomb, I, too, will send thunder,” he said. Igboho also dismissed rumours of his kidnap, saying “no one can kidnap me. I know you Yoruba people love me. I’m not missing. We are almost there. All those who go out with me to rallies, you are safe. No policeman can arrest you. We are asking for our rights. No one can intimidate us in our fatherland. No governor can say we must not have rallies in his state. “We are in Yorubaland. It will be okay if Britain or United Nations come to our aid to help us actualise it. If not, we will never back down. It’s possible some political hangers-on will align with politicians because of benefits they get from them, don’t mind them; they are too minute to stop us,” he said.