A Magistrate's Court sitting in Kaduna State has issued a warrant of arrest against the former Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mr. Andrew Yakubu, and his wife, Sarah for failing to appear before it despite summons. The warrant of arrest was issued by the Chief Magistrate, Blessing Dauda based on the application filed by the counsel for the complainant, Kimi Livingstone Appah.  Yakubu and his wife were said to have ignored several summonses by the court in a suit between them and one Mr. Timothy Giwa on the offence bordering on criminal conspiracy, theft, mischief, and criminal trespass. A warrant form obtained by SaharaReporters on Monday directed that police personnel and authorities should arrest Mr. Andrew and produce him before the court on June 28, 2021. Also, a copy of the ex parte order granting leave of substituted service on Yakubu by substituted means was obtained by our correspondent.   In an application for issuance of criminal summons with No: KMD/25/2021 filed by Kimi on behalf of the complainant stated that Yakubu purchased a house at number 89 Ahmadu Ahijo Road, Barnawa, Kaduna, and Giwa's father acted as one of the agents for sales and purchase of the said premises from the original owners. That before the sale and transfer of the title to the buyer (Yakubu). The complaint and his wife were living in the house and upon the purchase of the property, the buyer asked the complainant and his wife to keep staying in the house and to take care of the premises for them. But in a twist of events, the buyer was said to have forcefully ejected the complainant from the house and removed the roofs and windows in a bid to render the house inhabitable. The complainant also accused Yakubu of stealing his properties which include a television, two boxes of clothes, and the sum of N1,205, 000. As one of the agents for sales and purchase of the said premises from the original owners. We are more deliberate before the sale and transfer of the title to the buyer (Yakubu). The complaint and his wife were living in the house and upon the purchase of the property, the buyer asked the complainant and his wife to keep staying in the house and to take care of the premises for them. But in a twist of the event, the buyer was said to have forcefully ejected the complainant from the house and removed the roofs and windows in a bid to render the house inhabitable. The complainant also accused Yakubu of stealing his properties which include a television, two boxes of clothes, and the sum of N1,205, 000.