The Synagogue Church of All Nations on Sunday morning confirmed the death of its founder, Temitope Joshua, better known as Prophet TB Joshua. Joshua was 57. he was born on June 12, 1963, in Arigidi, the Akoko axis of Ondo State.  Plans were underway for his 58th birthday, which is six days away. News of his demise became a trend on social media in the early hours of Sunday as many Nigerians took turns to mourn the late prophet.The cause of his death was not immediately disclosed, but sources told Saharareporters he fell ill two days ago. His body is believed to have been deposited at General Hospital in Isolo, Lagos.TB Joshua's megachurch runs the popular Emmanuel TV television station from Lagos, followed by many Christians worldwide.Joshua is famous across Africa, Europe and America. His YouTube channel, Emmanuel TV, had over 1,000,000 subscribers and was the world's most viewed Christian ministry on the platform before it was suspended.



See Also






Christianity
How Popular Nigerian Televangelist TB Joshua Died
0 Comments
16 Minutes Ago





A statement from the church's Facebook page reads, "PROPHET TB JOSHUA – JUNE 12 1963 to JUNE 5 2021. Surely the Sovereign LORD does nothing without revealing his plan to his servants the prophets." – Amos 3:7"On Saturday, June 5 2021, Prophet TB Joshua spoke during the Emmanuel TV Partners Meeting: "Time for everything – time to come here for prayer and time to return home after the service.""God has taken His servant Prophet TB Joshua home – as it should be by divine will. His last moments on earth were spent in the service of God. This is what he was born for, lived for and died for."As Prophet TB Joshua says, 'The greatest way to use life is to spend it on something that will outlive it.' Prophet TB Joshua leaves a legacy of service and sacrifice to God's Kingdom, living for generations yet unborn.



See Also






News
Popular Nigerian Televangelist Pastor TB Joshua Is Dead
0 Comments
1 Hour Ago





"The Synagogue, Church Of All Nations and Emmanuel TV Family appreciate your love, prayers and concern at this time and request a time of privacy for the family. Here are Prophet TB Joshua's last words: "Watch and pray." One life for Christ is all we have; one life for Christ is so dear."