The June 12 Democracy Day nationwide protest is currently gathering momentum as Nigerians in over 30 cities around the world have showed solidarity to register their displeasure about the country’s state of insecurity. Civil society organisations and human rights activists have called for a nationwide protest on June 12, Nigeria’s Democracy Day, against the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration.  According to various publicity posters, the protest will make 14 critical demands which are: abolish 1999 constitution, end terrorism, end banditry, (Isa) Pantami must go (Minister of Communications and Digital Economy who has expressed sympathy for terrorists), free all detained activists, end insecurity, justice for all EndSARS victims, Free Kogi2 (Two anti-President Muhammadu Buhari protesters – Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka – who are being detained in Kogi State), Buhari Must Go, revert electricity tariffs, end ASUP (Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics) strike, revert fuel price, revert party deregistration, and free Nicholas Mbah. Human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, in Twitter post on Thursday said residents of about 31 cities have confirmed their readiness for the mass protest. “Akure. Kaduna. Kano. Zaria. Abuja. Lagos. Benin City. Port Harcourt. Abeokuta. Lokoja. Oshogbo. Yola. Calabar. Onitsha. Awka. London. New York. Jos. Makurdi. Warri. Ibadan. Ilorin. Minna. Lafia. Damaturu. Gombe. Joburg. Toronto. Frankfurt. Stockholm-CONFIRMED ‪#June12Protest‬ ‪#BuhariMustGo.‬ “These are cities that have been confirmed ready for ‪#June12Protest. ‬Ado-Ekiti is now confirmed,” he tweeted.  These are cities that have been confirmed ready for #June12Protest  Nigeria’s June 12 Democracy Day is a public holiday to commemorate the restoration of democracy in the country. May 29 was initially the democracy day in Nigeria, but it was changed in 2018 by the Federal Government. This is special in Nigeria’s history and is used to commemorate the democratic election of Chief MKO Abiola on June 12, 1993, in what has been adjudged to be Nigeria's freest and fairest elections. It was, however, cancelled by the Ibrahim Babangida military junta, and Abiola was thrown into prison, leading ultimately to his untimely death in 1998.