Oba (Prof) Sunday Adejimola Amuseghan, Lawe II, Kalasuwe, Paramount Ruler of Apoi land has condemned the shooting of human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore by a female police officer, Altine Hyelhira Daniel, in Abuja.  Sowore was on Monday morning shot by Daniel at the Unity Fountain, Abuja while he was trying to gain entrance into the place. Kalasuwe of Apoi land The activist was said to have been speaking with a detachment of police officers stationed at the public facility when the female officer fired at him.  Protesters had converged on the fountain at 8:30am. But the police allegedly denied them entry into the place. See Also






Human Rights
24 Hours After Shooting Of Sowore, Police Yet To Sanction Trigger-happy Officer
0 Comments
8 Hours Ago Many people also sustained varying degrees of injury during the incident  Kalasuwe in a statement obtained by SaharaReporters called for the prosecution of Daniel, while demanding justice, equity and fairness for all Nigerians.  According to the first-class monarch, citizens must be able to exercise their constitutional rights to freedom of expression, peaceful assembly, ask questions, and make demands, especially with the current situation of the country.  He described the incessant attacks and attempts to kill Sowore by the police because of his agitation for justice, fair play, equity and security as well as respect and defence of fundamental human rights in Nigeria as crude, unjustifiable and criminal.  “It is an attempt to repress his constitutionally guaranteed rights. It is Boko Haram insurgents, Fulani herdsmen atrocities that must be stamped out of Nigeria and not the activities of freedom fighters who are exercising their fundamental rights,” he said.  “It is important to note that Omoyele Sowore is a worthy son of Apoi land who is always on the side of truth, justice and equity.  "We call on the federal government to get to the root of the matter and ensure that justice is not only done but seen to have been done,” Kalasuwe concluded.