Nigerians on social media have attacked Bashir El-Rufai, son of Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, over his tweets wherein he mocked Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra. Bashir had in a tweet on Tuesday suggested that Kanu be locked up in a cell with a cow after news of the IPOB leader's arrest broke. Bashir El-Rufai His tweet, in which he tagged Nigeria's president, Muhammadu Buhari, read, ”He should be locked in a cell with a cow, please @MBuhari.”  He should be locked in a cell with a cow, please @MBuhari.  In another Tweet, Bashir described Kanu as a hooligan, noting that there are people who are displeased with the latest development but are scared to talk. He said, “There are those that will be upset this hooligan was arrested, but will be too cowardly to express it. Victory for the country. May we all continue to progress in unison.”  There are those that will be upset this hooligan was arrested, but will be too cowardly to express it. Victory for the country. May we all continue to progress in unison.  His comments, however, have continued to spark outrage, as many Nigerians tackled him for not being constructive in his criticisms. Many opined that Bashir was well-educated enough to avoid being sentimental on such issues while some blasted him, describing him as a privileged one who has refused to make good use of his education. Social media users highlighted the issues of insecurity in Kaduna State, the governance of which lies on Bashir's father, stressing that insecurity should be tackled before discussions on Kanu's arrest can be made. Below are reactions from Nigerians to Bashir's posts:  When u drink too much cow milk, romance so many cows ass, u begin to c it as normal. U're beginning to reason like ur tyrant father. Hope u remember Ghadaffi? https://t.co/f55voZk7jv   What is wrong with this shameless youth   All these people who think they are better than others simply bcos daddy stole from the poor and denied them their rights will be saying rubbish like the cows they are   Self-determination can never be extinguished. Ask Kosovo, Croatia et al...   It's quite unfortunate that people like you would comment on issues of national importance. First, tell your father to dust his table very well before leaving office. Because after then, we will know who are the real hooligans.  Meanwhile, the Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday ordered the detention of Kanu till July 26, 2021, for a continuation of his trial. Kanu is facing charges bordering on treasonable felony instituted against him at the court in response to years of the campaign for the independent Republic of Biafra through IPOB. He was granted bail in April 2017 for health reasons but skipped bail after flouting some of the conditions given to him by the court. In a broadcast via Radio Biafra, Kanu boasted that the Nigerian court lacks the capacity to try him, describing the court as a Kangaroo court. He said the judge who asked his sureties to produce him should have asked the army why they invaded his residence. “Nigerian court is a Kangaroo court. I did not jump bail, I left because the court failed to protect me,” he said. The Nigerian government on Tuesday announced his arrest and extradition to Nigeria to continue facing trial. He was subsequently arraigned while being blindfolded before Binta Nyako, a Judge of the Federal High Court in Abuja. See Also






Police
REVEALED: How Inspector-General Of Police, DSS Planned Nnamdi Kanu’s Arrest For Months—Military Sources
0 Comments
4 Hours Ago