The mass retirement of 60 generals from the Regular Course 36 in the Nigerian Army, navy and air force is causing tension and operational lapses in some departments of the military, SaharaReporters has learnt. On Thursday, it was learnt that the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Lucky Irabor, met with the affected officers at the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, and tried to woo them with one-year courses locally and abroad in lieu of retirement.  “The military is going to lose a lot of quality hands; several departments will be without heads or managed by inexperienced officers, which is going to tell on the overall security arrangement of the country. The CDS knows too and he is trying to pacify senior officers with courses abroad,” a top source stated. The Nigerian Army already on Thursday approved the postings and redeployments of about 11 Major-Generals and Brigadier-Generals to cushion the effects of those who are proceeding on compulsory retirements.Of the 60 officers, the army has 29, the Navy has 17 while 14 are from the air force. “Some of the generals will be proceeding to the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, while others will go to the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria, Badagry, on a one-year course before retirement. Some may proceed to foreign institutions depending on their choices and funds,” another source stated. “At this time when there is rising insecurity, losing 60 top military officers in one fell swoop is not suitable for the country. The President has clearly shown that his ethnic and religious interests supercede the stability and career progression of the military. That was the same way he stagnated the career of many officers during the six-year spell of the former service chiefs.” A signal from the CDS with Reference DH/ABJ/401/38/ADM dated June 4, 2021 which was signed by Rear Admiral AB Adamu and obtained by Vanguard, confirmed the deployments of the generals to undertake courses. “The senior officers were to proceed on the annual leave wef 1-30 June. However, I am directed to invite all serving members of 36 RC in the AFN (Maj Gen and equivalent) to a meeting with the CDS as follows. Thursday, June 10, 21; DHQ Conference Hall; 11.00hrs prompt.”