A leaked audio tape believed to be the voice of the slain ex-Presidential Political Adviser, Ahmad Gulak says the National Security Adviser, Mohammed Babagana Mungono should be arrested and prosecuted because he is a threat to the security of Nigeria. In the audio tape, the person believed to be Gulak called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the NSA and then arrest and prosecut him for alleged corrupt practices. Nnamdi Kanu The tape was played by the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu on Monday, while trying to establish the fact that he and his pro-Biafra group are not behind Gulak’s death. Gulak, a former political aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan was killed by six gunmen in Owerri, the Imo State capital, on his way to catch a flight at Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, on Sunday morning. Some security agents have blamed IPOB and its militant arm, Eastern Security Network (ESN) for Gulak's death, but a statement by IPOB on Sunday evening said the group did not have anything to do with his death. Kanu released the tape and asked the President to arrest Mungono, suggesting the NSA might have been behind his death. The audio tape says, “Awusu Billahi Mina Saitani Rajim. I want to say what I have been saying over time. Mr President, remove, arrest and prosecute Maj. Gen. Aliyu Mungono, the National Security Adviser “Mr President, remove, arrest and prosecute Major General Aliyu Mungono, National Security Adviser. He’s corrupt, he’s clueless, he doesn’t have the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians at heart. And that Mungono is a hypocrite. “If he thinks he has available power within him, let him arrest me. He’s corrupt, he’s a thief, and he’s a problem to the security of this country. You people are afraid. I’m not afraid. Mungono is only busy stealing the money,” the audio tape revealed. Reacting to the audio, Kanu said, “His killer that they want to pin on Nnamdi Kanu. I pray seven times every day, this God I worship that if you cannot protect me, then what am I doing. What is he doing as God? “They got the date wrong. If they had killed him today (Monday), they would have blamed it on me. But they got the date wrong. And they never knew that this video would come out. This is the reason why you must work very hard to ensure the disintegration of Nigeria. “Nigeria is an evil enclave. Listen. Let’s listen to the man that they killed and wanted to blame it on Nnamdi and IPOB. Let’s listen to him. “This is Ahmed Gulak, asking their so-called president to do something. To do what, what are you asking the President to do? The man they killed in Owerri, blaming Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB. The man that they themselves killed. That’s the name of the man that killed him,” Kanu said in the audio.