Some Fulani Herdsmen, on Sunday, attacked two brothers at Ikot Atasung, Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State killing one and leaving the other severely injured. It was gathered that the herders had a clash with the brothers after the duo warned the herders to take their cattle out of their farmland, Daily Post reports. File photo used to illustrate story.
Guardian Nigeria A source said the brothers had complained that the cattle were destroying crops in the area and subsequently told the herders to take their cattle to the bush for grazing. The herdsmen got infuriated with the warning and thereafter attacked the siblings with a machete, cutting them fatally. One of the brothers reportedly died on the spot while the other, who is severely injured was admitted to a hospital in Ikot Ekpene, and battling for his life. The incident happened around Community Secondary Commercial School, Ikot Atasung/Ikot Obong Otoro, popularly called Urua Obo, off Umuahia road in the Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area.Meanwhile, the Ikot Ekpene Local Government Chairman, Unyime Etim who confirmed the incident, said, “The victims were hunters who usually set their traps in the bush and on getting there to check their trap around 3 am, they met the herdsmen who had invaded their farms with cows. “I learned that while they persuaded the herders to leave, the herders cut one of them in the armpit and the back, and he died on the spot. “I am told the other brother is in critical condition but I saw the corpse of the one killed by the herders. “I went to the place with the police, leader of Hausa/Fulani community and they have promised to fish out the culprits, whom they said had left the area. “For now I cannot say what happened till one of the victims is resuscitated and we can hear from him. The youths wanted to revenge but I needed to calm them down.” The police spokesperson in the state, Odiko Macdon confirmed the incident, describing it as unfortunate. Odiko, who said the perpetrators would be fished out and brought to justice, said the police commissioner, Andrew Amiengheme had ordered a full investigation into the matter. He said, “We have received that report, it is an unfortunate one. The CP has ordered a discreet investigation into the incident with the aim of apprehending the perpetrators of the act. “And I want to believe that in no distance time, we will have an update on the incident because those who have committed the act must be brought to justice.”