The NINAS Movement steadily and surely sweeping through the NINAS Territory (Lower Niger Bloc, Yoruba Bloc, and Middle Belt Bloc) is the only non-violent and ORDERLY way to manage and contain the wreckage of Nigeria. It is therefore not just disappointing, but quite dangerous too that on May 19, 2021, newspapers reported that British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, had said that the United Kingdom would deny visas to Nigerians who disrupt 2023 general elections. On the face of it, one would think that Ms Laing was supporting democracy and fair play. However, given that since 16th December 2020, Nigeria became a DISPUTED PROJECT, her message to Nigerians actually promotes the country’s high corruption, impunity and increasing insecurity from Islamic terrorism, and it is squarely against the people’s NINAS Movement that actually brings real democracy and rule of law into the Nigerian space. It is a great pity that Ms Laing (or her advisers) had seemingly not considered the clear and United Nations-guided NINAS Notice of Constitutional Force Majeure of last 16th December, where the indigenous peoples of the NINAS territory made it globally known that they had Repudiated the illegitimate 1999 Constitution that they never made or agreed to, so were no longer going to tolerate such an unjust situation, and therefore the general elections of 2023 needed to be SUSPENDED, so that this clearly wrong situation can be peacefully corrected by dialogue and negotiation. It is under such national grievances that Ms Laing, rather than side with the indigenous peoples who seek peace, democracy, and an end to terrorism, sides with those who want to renew the life of the illegitimate 1999 Constitution, which happens via elections! Renewal of the life of that 1999 Constitution comes about when the winner (or rigger) of elections swears an Oath of Office to uphold that Constitution over their people for the next four years. Ndidi Uwechue It is also a great pity that Ms Laing (or her advisers) had seemingly not approached the Lower Niger Congress (LNC) the self-determination organisation that for over two decades, since the illegitimate instrument of governance known as the “1999 Constitution” was imposed on the peoples of Nigeria, had been working to get that offensive document Decommissioned in a peaceful and intelligent manner, acceptable to the United Nations and to the international community. LNC is the originator of the NINAS Constitutional Force Majeure Strategy, and the lead self-determination organisation in an Alliance with Yoruba and Middle Belt self-determination organisations. The global community had been wondering why Nigerians flee the country in huge numbers, heading mainly for the West, but also increasingly now, for the Orient, and it is the work of the LNC that has shown the world that the imposed 1999 Constitution is the source of that mass migration. It creates an intolerable environment: a corrupt, retarding Nigeria, and it is also now being used to bring about genocide of the indigenous peoples, plus it is being used to allow Islamist terrorism into the Nigerian space. It is also a great pity that Ms Laing (or her advisers) had seemingly not gotten acquainted with the conclusions of some key respectable international Hearings, Meetings and Reports on the state of Nigeria such as the following: Nigeria has an estimated population of over 200 million, and it cannot be stressed enough that Nigeria as currently constituted is UNFIT TO LIVE IN. People are therefore fleeing the Nigeria created by the illegitimate 1999 Constitution. It is a Constitution of unknown origin, shrouded in secrecy but which benefits the Fulani, a settler and immigrant people. That document creates a Unitary system such that Central government has enormous powers, and when the wrong type of people manage to grab hold of power, what obtains is an anti-people, extremely corrupt, tyrannical style of governance. President Buhari, a Fulani man, despite continued protests from indigenous peoples, has filled his rank of leadership with Fulani, such that all key ministries and agencies are headed by Fulani. That has led some to call it the “Fulani government of Nigeria”, and it is under this regime that Nigerians are experiencing deadly violence from Fulani herdsmen militia and terrorists, plus land grab by Fulani. The illegitimate 1999 Constitution enables the Fulani-majority government structure, via the Unitary system, to cripple the indigenous peoples making them powerless to protect themselves against marauding Fulani invaders and Islamist terrorists. It is therefore vital for the stability of the West African region, and to prevent a refugee crisis on a grand scale that would also impact Europe, that the NINAS Movement to Decommission the 1999 Constitution not be hindered by foreign interference. In addition, that same Constitution, that does not have the consent of the governed, is also used as a weapon by government to grab the resources of indigenous peoples, just as an armed robber uses a gun to rob his victims, and to even kill them. The NINAS Movement therefore insists that the life of the 1999 Constitution cannot be renewed by yet another round of general elections in 2023! It is unwise for the UK’s Ms Laing, with Nigeria a Disputed Project, to threaten to deny visas to those who support the NINAS Movement and thus the ORDERLY PROCESS of Constitutional Force Majeure which includes suspension of the 2023 general elections so that the injustice of operating an illegitimate 1999 Constitution is first corrected. It is evident that if the non-violent NINAS Movement is prevented, then the only option left would be armed conflict, because indigenous peoples will not give in to the Fulani agenda that is a “mortal threat” to them. Frankly, if the UK decides to interfere in the Decommissioning of an illegitimate 1999 Constitution that is a known forgery, would it then be prepared to host the tens of millions of refugees that would ensue? Therefore, the UK and the alarmed international community should support the NINAS Movement that simply wants democracy and a terrorist-free existence in peace. Ndidi Uwechue is a British citizen with Igbo heritage from the Lower Niger Bloc. She is a retired Metropolitan (London) Police Officer, she is a signatory to the Constitutional Force Majeure, and she writes from Abuja.