The agitators of Biafra and Oduduwa republics have merged forces to train their operatives in a joint session in a bid to continue defending their territories against aggressive raids and wanton killings of innocent people by suspected Fulani herders and other criminals. In a statement titled, ‘Press Release from the Joint Training of Biafra and Oduduwa Volunteer Force,’ the two agitators described the united trained personnel as a symbol of unity existing between the younger generations of the two indigenous nations.  This was contained in a statement by the media and publicity secretary of the Command, Emma Powerful, made available to SaharaReporters on Monday. Nigeria, the most populous black nation is faced with growing agitation for self-determination from the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) led by Nnamdi Kanu from the South-East. Also, Prof Banji Akintoye, President of Ilana Omo Oodua, and the rights activist, Sunday Igboho are championing the agitation cause to have the Oduduwa Republic for the South-West. One of the major reasons for their separatist agenda is the unchecked atrocities committed by Fulani herders against the two regions, which the Nigerian government has failed to address. In the statement, the Biafra and Oduduwa Volunteer Force for the Liberation of Southern Nigeria vowed to work together henceforth in protecting their people. "This is to put the Nigerian Government and her security agencies in Nigeria on notice that Biafra and Oduduwa have further strengthened their bond as one people, following the joint training of personnel from both sides. "These joint volunteer force will secure the territories of Southern Nigeria against 'foreign Fulani terrorists and any unwarranted aggression from any external force'. "Oduduwa and Biafra Volunteer Force demand an immediate end to the ongoing genocide against the people of Biafra and immediate demilitarisation of Biafraland as we are now ready to defend our territories against aggression. The killing and abduction in Biafra and Oduduwa land must stop immediately. "We reiterate that an attack on Oduduwa land is an attack on Biafra and an attack on Biafra is an attack on Oduduwa. This is the bond the Fulanis tried for many years to destroy but today, the new generation of Oduduwa and Biafra have risen to say no to divide and rule. We are on the threshold of history because we are stronger together. "Today we have trained together, dined together, and drunk together. Should duty call for it, we shall die together in defense of the entire South. We shall defend our land together, this is historic day for both nations," the statement read.