The Katsina State Police Command has arrested a suspected 30-year-old kidnapper and rapist, Sirajo Dauda, of Rijiyar Basai village in Danja Local Government Area of the state for drugging and abducting an 18-year-old housewife, Jamila Auwal. The command’s Public Relations Officer, Gambo Isah, who paraded Dauda before newsmen on Friday, said in the course of the investigation, the suspect confessed to have abducted and locked up the victim for five months in a room and raped her daily.  In another development, a notorious bandit, Ibrahim Abdullahi, aged 40 years who is also a gunrunner was arrested alongside his son and two others. Gambo said they were nabbed at Tsaskiya-Ummadau road in Safana LGA of the state. According to him, on 21/06/2021 at about 13:20 hrs, a team of Police Mobile Personnel (PMF) on patrol in the area accosted the bandits on two motorbikes. He said in the course of the investigation, the team recovered the sum of N3,445,000 from the bandits. The police spokesman maintained that, during interrogation, the ring leader who confessed to being a gunrunner said they had taken six AK-47 rifles to one notorious bandit leader, Tukur Rabiu, alias Nasharme, hiding in Rijana forest along Kaduna-Abuja Road. He said they collected the said amount in return for the arms. The suspect, he added also confessed to being engaged in gunrunning for one Abu Rade, a notorious bandit hiring in Rugu/Dumburum forest of Katsina and Zamfara states respectively. Similarly, the suspect revealed that he was paid the sum of N100, 000 as commission for each arm supplied, adding that, he had supplied so many AK-47 rifles to different camps of gangs of bandits in the country. Gambo added that a notorious bandit and cattle rustler, Ibrahim Iliya, aged 30 of Sabon Garin Dan Ali village in Danmusa LGA of the state has been nabbed by the police. In the course of the investigation, the police spokesperson said the suspect confessed to being among the syndicate of bandits that attacked the poultry farm of one Alhaji Abubakar at Yantumaki village in Danmusa LGA and took away 49 cows, 41 sheep, and 13 goats valued over N5 million. According to the suspect, he had participated in the crime alongside seventeen others presently at large.