In October 2020, from Ondo to Oyo to Lagos to the nation’s capital and parts of many other states, thousands of youths hit the streets to protest against harassment and extra-judicial killings by operatives of the now-disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). The demonstrations garnered the support of several influential figures across the world, especially after operatives of the Nigerian Army stormed the Lekki tollgate protest ground in Lagos and opened fire on unarmed protesters on the night of October 20.  SaharaReporters gathered that some of the protesters who participated in demonstration are still languishing in prisons accross the country eight months after. The charges preferred against them are conspiracy to commit the following felonies, to wit: arson, riotous assembly, stealing and malicious damage. At the Surulere Prison in Ondo West Local Government Area of Ondo state, three persons namely Ayodele Bukunmi, Ojo Samuel and Ani Obinna have been in detention for the past eight months. Kpanou Robbert, Aletile David, Peter John, Muri Garuba, Garfar Olalere, Sunday Okoro, Augustine Chukwudi, Lateef Segun, Yakubu Jimoh and Nasiru Danjumoh were arrested at different locations in Lagos after the October 2020 protests and have been languishing at the Kirikiri Prison in Lagos. Others in the prison facility include Adebayo Usman, Aderoju Theophilus, Ayobami Saheed, Akinyemi Bolaji, Olagoke Adewale, Ganiu Ambali, Seyi Awobola and Damola Leigh. In Oyo state, Adesina Ayobami Ademuyiwa and 10 others that allegedly participated in the #EndSARS protest have been detained at the Correctional Centre in the state since last October, eight months ago. It was learnt that human rights activists had drawn the attention of Oyo State Government to the cases, but the government insisted that the prosecution is being undertaken by the Federal government. Others being prosecuted by the government include Ikechukwu Eze, Ariyo Sodiq, Ikenna Amaechi, Oyewole Olumide, Ariyo Afeez, Taoreed Abiodun, Adekunle Moruf, Rasheed Tiamiyu.