Indigenes of Mgbede Egbema Community in the Onelga local government area of Rivers State have asked President Muhammadu Buhari to withdraw Fulani herdsmen from their community, following attacks by suspected Fulani herdsmen on residents. The community members also urged the Rivers State government to ensure Fulani herdsmen vacate the state, seeking an end to the menace of herdsmen invasion. Map of Rivers State This comes as Fulani herdsmen recently launched an attack on the community, on Thursday, killing one farmer identified as Temple while many others have been declared missing. The National Secretary of Egbema Youth Association, Ijeoma Nnamdi said, “This matter will not be ignored. Our community will maintain peace so that the Rivers State governor will look into this matter and chase Fulani herdsmen and their cows out of Rivers State. “We are saying we don't want them here anymore so that one day, they will not regroup and come and attack our communities. “Our farmlands are no longer safe. This is one of our brothers that has been killed. This is just one case, there are many other cases, our brothers have been killed in one or two locations, we won't tolerate this any further. ”We will address our communities to be calm for now but we expect that Rivers State government will look into this matter soonest. This is a young man with a family, he had a wife and children. “In the wake of today, we heard that the Fulani herdsmen were attacking our people in the bush, on our farmlands and this is one of the evidence. A young man from the Mgbede community was attacked and killed by the same herdsmen. “Now that we are alive, we are calling on Rivers State governor, we are calling on Buhari, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to come to our aid, we have no issues with herdsmen and we will not continue to tolerate their incessant killings in our communities. This case will not be ignored.” The brother of the deceased, Confidence Wellington said, "I was on my farm working when someone called me and told me my brother had been killed. I rushed down there only to see that it was true, I saw my brother's dead body.”