Yinka Alaseyori, the gospel musician who sang the controversial 'Oniduro mi', has urged everyone to allow God to take the centre stage. This is coming days after her song was criticised by a popular gospel artist, Tope Alabi.  Alaseyori, in one of her songs, described God as her (spiritual) guarantor or advocate. The song, ‘Oniduro mi e seun’, meaning ‘thank you, my Guarantor’, had since then gained prominence in churches in the South-West. But, in a video that has now gone viral, Tope Alabi was seen making a veiled reference to Alaseyori during an event, saying it will be wrong for anybody to tag God as his or her guarantor. Alabi, who spoke in Yoruba, said there was a day she wanted to sing the song, but the Holy Spirit told her to shut up. According to her, God is more than a guarantor or surety and it will not be good to describe him as such. She further warned gospel singers to digest songs very well before releasing them to the public. She said, “Look at the enormous things God has done and somebody now came out to say Oniduromi e seun. God is not my own guarantor. God is more than a guarantor. I also loved that song, but the day I wanted to sing it, the Holy Spirit said ‘shut up your mouth.’ This is not like saying a song is not good. “When you receive a song in the spirit, there are some deliberations you must have with the Holy Spirit before releasing it to the public, otherwise, if you release it the way it comes, individuals will just be singing rubbish. He has given us the brain to digest it very well, then bring it back.” Alabi has been heavily criticised by the public for making such a comment. However, in her reaction, Yinka said Tope Alabi is a mother to her and others. She then asked people to make God the focus of their worship. In one of her ministrations, Alaseyori paused and said, "Let Jesus take the wheel." She added: "Mummy Tope Alabi is our mother. She is a mother to me and so many and by virtue, we have been blessed by her ministry. "Please and please, let us worship God, let us celebrate God, let Jesus be at the centre of it all."