The embattled Nollywood actor and comedian, Omiyinka Olanrewaju popularly known as Baba Ijesha has complained about his deteriorating health conditions after being detained for alleged sexual molestation of a child in Lagos. In a video shared on Instagram, Baba Ijesha who appeared to be in pain was pointing to his aching body parts with vivid explanations to a doctor.  It was learnt that he had been suffering from a persistent and sharp headache from after five days he got into the cell, according to what he narrated in the video. He also complained of coughing blood and seeing traces of blood in his faeces. In the video, he was telling the medical doctors that he was kicked with boot at the lower abdomen which might have resulted in his poor health. “They used the boot to hit me here (he touched his lower abdomen), then here particularly (he pointed to his head). they hit me several times and it is always aching me like, I won't be able to control myself. It will just come like a sharp pain and draw my eyes. I feel weak every time. Five days after I arrived at Panti, yes the cell, I became very sick. I was rushed to a hospital,” he said in an undisclosed hospital in Lagos. It was not clear who the comedian was referring to that was responsible for his assault, but it was as a result of jungle justice he received since the start of his alleged sex scandal with a minor belonging to a comedienne, Damilola Adekoya, whose stage name is Princess. Baba Ijesha was reportedly accused of defiling a 7-year-old minor, Princess daughter who was kept under his care. The girl reported the incident to Princess and his friend after seven years. Then, Princess who said he wanted to catch Baba Ijesha red-handed called for a meeting by inviting him to her house, and he tried to molest the girl again having installed CCTV that recorded him. That began the arrest and detention of Baba Ijesha on April 22, until he was granted bail of N2 million by Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of the Lagos State Special Offences Court on Thursday.