Officers of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested a man, Kingsley Achugbu who was alleged to have raped his home help and 2-year-old biological daughter. This was made known in a statement issued by the Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, on Tuesday.  The case was said to have been reported by the home help at the FESTAC Division of the command in company with a child rights activist, Justina Nelson of Advocates for Children and Vulnerable Peoples Network. The minor, who was molested by her father, has been taken to the hospital for medical examination to aid further investigation, police said. It was further stated that the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered that the matter be transferred to the Gender Unit of the Command for further investigation and possible prosecution. The police boss has also appealed to the general public to always report all cases of sexual harassment and domestic-based violence to the police or any available relevant government agencies and non-governmental organisations for necessary action to get rid of the societal menace in the state. The statement read, “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, has again vowed to fight sexual offences and domestic-based violence headlong in Lagos State. “The police boss made the pledge today Tuesday 22nd June 2021, while reacting to a case of alleged defilement of a minor by her biological father and sexual harassment of his wife's housemaid, at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja-Lagos. “The Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, reiterated his zero tolerance for such sexual offences like Rape, Defilement, Sexual Harassment and Assault, Domestic-Based Violence, etc which have been the order of the day in our society; and promised to work hand in hand with relevant government agencies and non-governmental organisations to fight the societal menaces to a halt in Lagos State and by extension, in Nigeria. “The police operatives attached to Festac Division of the Command, on Monday 21st, June 2021, arrested one Kingsley Achugbu, of Festac Area, Lagos, for alleged sexual harassment of his wife's housemaid (name withheld) and his biological daughter of 2 years old. “The housemaid had reported the matter to the police at Festac Division, in the company of one Mrs Justina Nelson, of Children and Vulnerable Persons Network and the police swung into action immediately. The 2-year-old survivor has been taken to the hospital for medical examination and expert report for further investigation."