The National Emergency Management Agency has confirmed that 13 persons sustained varying degrees of injuries following a Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) tanker explosion at Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way, opposite Sheraton Hotels and Towers, Ikeja The explosion which occurred on Thursday night at about 10:32 pm also resulted in the destruction of over 25 cars, the agency's Acting Zonal Coordinator, South-West Zonal Office, Ibrahim Farinloye said.  According to Farinloye, the explosion threw the environment into panic due to the huge fire caused by the incident, NAN reports. He said the explosion was alleged to have been caused by leakage while the LPG tanker was in motion.  “The resulting fire travelled with the wind to the premises of Ogun State Property Investment Company (OPIC) Plaza besides Sheraton Hotels, which houses different commercial outfits including a Chinese Restaurant. “The fire was put out at about 12.30 a.m., after concerted efforts of five fire trucks from the Lagos State Fire Service and two trucks from the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency Response Unit. PHOTONEWS: Huge Fire Raging Around Sheraton Hotel, Total Gas Station In Ikeja Area Of Lagos After Explosion pic.twitter.com/JMcpNvZoNA  “The initial search and rescue activities revealed that 13 persons sustained various degrees of burns. Out of this, nine are males while four are females,” Farinloye said. According to him, the affected victims were being administered first aid at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital. He said four of the victims with severe injuries were later transferred to the Trauma and Burns Centre at Gbagada General Hospital, Lagos. “Preliminary assessment of vehicles damaged indicated that about 25 were destroyed as of now. “Comprehensive post-disaster assessment on the extent of general damages would be done later today,” Farinloye added. He further stated that the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, led the team which took charge of crowd control and helped to restore normalcy.