The Muhammadu Buhari-led government has concluded plans to pay the President of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Sunday Asefon N40 million to mobilise thugs in major cities and disrupt the planned June 12 Democracy Day nationwide protest, SaharaReporters has gathered. Asefon had in meeting with Nigeria's Inspector of General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba on Tuesday promised to mobilise against those planning protest using his power as NANS President.  “He met with the Inspector of General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba three days ago but the IGP refused to take pictures with him, telling him there was a crisis in NANS and he was not sure Asefon was in control. “Asefon then told him he is the original President with the structure of the students’ body. “He then asked the IGP for assistant and the condition given to him was to mobilise against the people planning protests on June 12 if truly he is the original NANS President. “He immediately promised the IGP to consider it done. He said they will initially join the rally and later disrupt it,” a source had told SaharaReporters. Civil society organisations and human rights activists have called for a nationwide protest on June 12 against the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration.



See Also






News
45-year-old Nigerian Students' Leader, Asefon Cancels ‘Anti-June 12 Protest’ After SaharaReporters’ Story
0 Comments
13 Hours Ago According to various publicity posters, the protest will make 14 critical demands which are: Abolish 1999 constitution, End terrorism, End banditry, Isa Pantami must go (Minister of Communications and Digital Economy who expressed sympathy for terrorists), Free all detained activists, End insecurity, Justice for all EndSARS victims, Free Kogi2 (Two anti-President Muhammadu Buhari protesters – Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka – who are being detained in Kogi State), Buhari Must Go, Revert electricity tariffs, End ASUP (Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics) strike, Revert fuel price, Revert party deregistration, and Free Nicholas Mbah. A source in the Presidency told SaharaReporters that the management of Petroleum Product Marketing Company, a subsidiary of Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) has been ordered to pay Asefon N40 million to mobilise thugs in major cities across the country with police cover and unleash terror on genuine protesters on June 12.



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: Nigerian Students Association President, Asefon Meets Police Inspector General, Vows To Disrupt June 12 Planned Protest 
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “Asefon is to be paid by the Director of Extension of PPMC the sum of N40 million this evening. All arrangement about the fund has been concluded. “The money was to compensate him for calling off his planned protest and also mobilise thugs in major cities with police cover to unleash terror on genuine protesters tomorrow. “He will pick up the money in dollars this evening. He has been in Abuja for some weeks now.”