No fewer than 10 residents of Igangan community, in the Ibarapa North area of Oyo state have been killed by suspected Fulani herdsmen. SaharaReporters gathered that the herdsmen arrived at Igangan around 11pm on Saturday, leaving early Sunday morning with 10 persons dead.  A source in the community identified two of the people killed as Lekan and Ajani, saying they were farmers in the area. A resident of Ayete who is close to the family of the deceased farmers, Olalekan Etu told SaharaReporters that hunters were already on their way to track down the Fulani killers. SaharaReporters learnt that some suspected herdsmen on Saturday killed a resident of Igangan, identified as Captain Caston, which led a crisis in the area. Igangan Residents Flee As Fulani Herdsmen Kill Scores In Renewed Attack On Oyo Community, Burnt Down Houses pic.twitter.com/lOt0jS6hYE  "Yes, it is true, many were killed. I know two of them who were very close to me. They arrived at Igangan around 12am and killed. I am confirming it. Our hunter had gathered themselves to go into the bush now. We need g the overnment and real Yoruba people to come to our rescue now. "Ibarapa is boiling now. These people are for a real. They have an agenda. We need to do something now. I know 10 people already who were killed. We may have other people too but for now, I know 10 people are gone," he said.  Another source said, "They came in around 11pm and operated till 3am. They came with weapons. The local hunters confronted them. We have been able to count 9 bodies. Two were Fulani attackers. "The palace of the Oba of the town was razed, houses and a petrol station was torched. "A guy that just buried his father was killed in the attack. Despite calling them, police and other security operatives have yet to come into the town. "Residents are currently leaving the town for fear of another attack." The police public relations officer in the state,  Adewale Osifeso did not answer his call when our correspondent called him and did not reply the text message sent to him either.