The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) says its members do not patronise native doctors for fortification, adding that the group does not trust in fetish practices.  It said this in a reaction to the report by the Nigeria Police that the members of the group invaded and killed a native doctor who used to prepare charms for them. File photo used to illustrate story. The separatist group said this via a statement made available to SaharaReporters by its spokesman, Emma Powerful on Monday.  It also berated security agents for killing innocent civilians in the South East and blaming the group for it, adding that it was ridiculous for the police to think IPOB would still kill its native physician. Imo State Commissioner of Police, Mike Abattam, Saturday, claimed that the militia wing of IPOB, Eastern Security Network killed and beheaded their native doctor and burnt his corpse after preparing an impotent charm for them. The statement by Abattam read that the victim was Paschal Okeke from Umudim-Ukwu Orji, Awomama in Oru East Local Government Area of Imo. Reacting on Monday, the group said, "The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has been drawn to the concocted and ridiculous statement from Nigeria police that IPOB and ESN killed a native doctor preparing charms for them in Awommama Oru East LGA of Imo State, and burnt his house.  "Let us reiterate once again that neither ESN nor IPOB kills people since its formation by our indomitable leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. We also do not have any native doctors as we do not believe in fetish acts. Our trust has always been in the Almighty God, Chukwu Okike Abiama.  "It is ridiculous for the Nigerian Government to associate IPOB or ESN with their moon tale narrative of a native doctor and charms. Assuming but not conceding to the laughable tale by the Nigeria police, does it make any sense that we will turn around to kill the same native doctor allegedly preparing charms for us?  "The security agents should stop blackmailing themselves thinking they are doing so against IPOB and ESN. They should stop killing and burning the houses of people and blaming their wickedness on IPOB and Eastern Security Network (ESN). We do not kill the same people we are sacrificing so much to liberate. Spilling of blood is not part of our mandate."  In the statement entitled, "We don't Patronise Native Doctors, Stop Linking us with your Sponsored Murders in Biafra Land - IPOB tells Police", the group said it knew nothing about the killing of the purported native doctor.  The secessionist group also stated that its camps cannot be penetrated by the security operatives while mocking them for being unable to locate the hideouts of bandits and terrorists in the North.  "We equally want to put it on record that the purported camps destroyed by security agents are not ESN camps. The false claims were to create the wrong impression that they are working hard and probably collect more money from their stupid Government.  "The fact remains that ESN camps cannot be infiltrated or combed by the Nigeria security agents. They are only out for propaganda to deceive the gullible into thinking that ESN is vulnerable, they are not. The wicked Nigeria security agents attacked the home of a Sabbatarian in Imo sometime ago and tagged him the commander of ESN and his compound as ESN camp.  "Those they claimed a native doctor preparing charms for ESN are not IPOB or ESN security operatives. Unfortunately, it's only in Biafra land that the weak and hypocritical Nigerian security agents zealously destroy the houses of native doctors but they are unable to locate native doctors preparing charms for terrorists, bandits, and Fulani herdsmen," the statement partly read.  IPOB reiterated that it does not kill people but the blackmail keeps coming from the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma, and the security forces.  It accused DCP Abba Kyari of hunting innocent residents in the South East while Yobe and Borno states where he hails from are the most terrorised places in the country.  "The public must disregard this junk news being dished out by the Nigeria police and Imo Supreme Court Administrator, Hope Uzodinma about the beheading of a native doctor from Imo state by IPOB and ESN. We know nothing about the purported incident. This is another lie concocted to further tarnish our image and set us against our people.  "It is unfortunate that super con cop DCP Abba Kyari and his team are killing Igbo youths and labelling them ESN and unknown gunmen. While, the Igbo efulefu elders and politicians have remained mute over the issue of killings, abductions, and bribery practices for the release of their innocent victims. Super con cop DCP Abba Kyari’s home town, Gujba in Yobe State, and his place of birth Maiduguri in Borno State are among the worst hit in terms of insecurity.  "If truly DCP Abba Kyari is a super cop, he should have used his widely claimed tactics in intelligence field to help dislodge Boko Haram, ISWAP, and Bandits having a field day in Northeast of Nigeria which is the region he came from (both Yobe and Borno are in the northeast of Nigeria). After all, they say 'charity begins at home'.  "Time has proven that Nigerian soldiers and police, including DCP Abba Kyari and his IRT team, cannot withstand Boko Haram, ISWAP, and bandits operating in the North-East where insurgency and insecurity are at large, why be zealous in killing innocent Biafrans, mainly of Igbo extraction?  "Nigerians must note that the zoo is seriously on the losing side of the game and they have resorted to using media propaganda to demoralise people and support what they are doing. But IPOB must not allow them we must always be at alert to counter every lies from them," the statement added.