Elements of the Boko Haram aided by the deadlier Islamic State West African Province are currently attacking Ajiri community in the Mafa Local Government Area of Borno State. Military sources told SaharaReporters that the troops are battling to keep the area safe, as the terrorists invaded in gun trucks and targeted the army’s base first. SaharaReporters Media “Ajiri in Mafa LGA is under Boko Haram and ISWAP attack. Troops are currently battling to keep the area safe,” an authoritative source stated. Earlier today, ISWAP and Boko Haram were reported to have invaded the Forward Operational Base of the Nigerian Army in the Bula Yobe area of Borno State, killing several soldiers. SaharaReporters had learnt that the insurgents on gun trucks attacked the base on Sunday, exchanging firepower with troops of 152 Task Force Battalion attached to Operation Hadan Kai who are stationed at the base. The Director, Army Public Relations, Brig Gen Onyema Nwachukwu, in a release, had confirmed the attack by ISWAP but noted that two soldiers were killed, while 12 terrorists died. He said, “Troops of 152 Task Force Battalion in conjunction with the Air Component of Operation Hadan Kai dealt a devastating blow on marauding Boko Haram and ISWAP while attempting to infiltrate the Forward Operational Base at Bula Yobe in Borno State. “The terrorists, who came mounted on Gun trucks and several motorcycles attacked the location via an unsuspected crossing point, but were met with a heavy volume of fire from the vigilant troops. The land troops, in their usual dexterity swiftly and decisively engaged the terrorists, subsequently forcing them to retreat, having lost initiative. “The troops sustained the firefight and successfully neutralised 12 terrorists, with several others fleeing with gunshot wounds. The troops gallantly captured one Gun Truck, one Self Propelled Gun-9, one Dushika Gun and one mounted QJC Machine Gun. Other items captured are one Light Machine Gun and five AK 47 rifles. “Sadly, during the encounter, two soldiers paid the supreme sacrifice, while five others sustained varying degrees of injury and have been evacuated by the Air component of OPHK to a medical facility, where they are currently receiving medical attention. “The general area within FOB Bula Yobe is cool and calm under the control of troops of the battalion. Further exploitation by resilient troops is ongoing. “The Chief of Army Staff, Major General Faruk Yahaya has lauded the land troops and the Air Component for their synergy and quick response, which is in tandem with the ongoing rejigging of the counter-terrorism counter-insurgency operations in the North East. He charged the troops to maintain the tempo and vehemently hold their ground, to deny the terrorists freedom of action.”