The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, is currently battling an undisclosed ailment in Germany and has been away from the country for months. SaharaReporters learnt that the key ministry has lacked adequate coordination as the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, and the Permanent Secretary, Sonny Echono, now take all critical decisions.  Some top sources at the ministry said Adamu is down with a kidney problem in Germany, while others said the 67-year-old minister from Bauchi State has cancer. “He has been away from Nigeria for many months, undergoing treatment. I cannot recall when last I set my eyes on him in the ministry but certainly not this year,” a top source stated. Checks by SaharaReporters confirmed that Adamu has not been on any official duty for most parts of the year. On May 27, the Federal Ministry of Education inaugurated a “Safe to School, Be Seen, Be Safe” initiative to ensure the children’s safety in and out of school. Adamu was represented at the occasion by the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba. On June 15, the Federal Ministry of Education established the National Research and Development Foundation Draft Executive Bill Committee, with a call on members to propose legislation that will ensure robust knowledge. Adamu was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Echono. On June 20, Adamu was said to have approved the takeoff of the Federal Polytechnic, Orogun, Delta State, to commence academic activities in September 2022. Adamu was again represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Echono. SaharaReporters learnt that Adamu, being a close ally to President Muhammadu Buhari, may continue his tenure from the sickbed even as critical educational policies, directions and interventions are lacking in the country due to the absence of quality leadership. SaharaReporters had on September 7, 2020, reported that Adamu was in a hospital in Berlin, Germany, but it is not clear whether he is at the same hospital presently.