The Nigerian government after banning Twitter and refusing to heed international warnings to reverse its decision has now registered on Indian microblogging and social media company, Koo, and had 2,867 followers. Checks by SaharaReporters on Thursday showed that the government had already messaged on the Koo App announcing its opening of the Mobolaji Bank Anthony flagship station of Lagos-Ibadan Rail, with the capacity to take 6,000 passengers.  Lauretta Onochie, Personal Assistant to the President on Social Media, also confirmed that Koo would be used for the coverage of the event. “Updates on #LagosIbadanRail flag-off event will be disseminated via… Koo, a new Twitter-like social media app where the Government of Nigeria has a new verified page; https://www.kooapp.com/profile/nigeriagov” SaharaReporters had on Monday reported that Koo announced its presence in Nigeria five days after the Nigerian Government suspended Twitter indefinitely over “actions which undermine the corporate existence of the country.” The Chief Executive Officer of the Indian micro-blogging firm, Koo, had announced that the platform is now available in Nigeria.Twitter has also been facing a crisis from the Government of India for refusing to comply with new rules.Koo said on Saturday that it was now available in Nigeria and was keen on adding new local languages for users in that West African nation. The move took place a day after the Nigerian government announced an indefinite suspension of Koo’s rival, Twitter, in the country. In a post on Koo on Saturday, its CEO and co-founder, Aprameya Radhakrishna, officially confirmed that the platform was now available in Nigeria. Radhakrishnan said, “We are thinking of enabling the local language there as well.“Nigeria is similar to India in terms of language diversity. It has hundreds of regional languages. Koo has a global outlook and will enable micro-blogging in countries that need it the most. We have built a scalable platform, and while we are still enhancing the product, it’s already available for use in multiple countries today.” Koo was launched in India, its home market, last year and has managed to secure funding of around $30 million from investors such as Tiger Global. Koo’s co-founder and chief executive officer, Aprameya Radhakrishna, says that the start-up has “aggressive plans to grow into one of the world’s largest social media platforms” and claims vast domestic support for this. SaharaReporters had on Friday reported that the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, announced the suspension of Twitter in a statement signed by his Special Assistant Segun Adeyemi citing the “persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence”.