Controversial cleric, Chris Okotie, has again stirred controversy going by his post celebrating and rejoicing over a certain wizard at Endor, who assumed the name “Emmanuel but has now been consumed by divine indignation.” Emmanuel is fondly used for the late Nigerian prophet, Temitope Babatunde Joshua, who died on Sunday at 57.  The church’s official television is also Emmanuel TV. Okotie, barely three days after TB Joshua’s death, shared a cryptic post on his Facebook page, saying the wizard of Endor assumed the name Emmanuel but had been consumed by the heavenly forces. He wrote on Tuesday, “Hebrews 1:13... Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool (Hupopodion/Greek). The wizard at Endor who assumed the title Emmanuel, has been consumed by divine indignation. And now his disciples bewail his ignominious exit. “No marvel, one third of God’s angels followed the disgraced anointed cherub Lucifer!! Jehovah-Jesus our mighty gladiator has broken the head of the dragon with his mighty blows. He has descended from the mountain of spices with the fiery sword of his indignation. Glorious in his apparel and traveling in the greatness of his strength, he goes conquering and to conquer the adversaries of his church. “Let those who swear by the Lord and by Malcham and the descendants of Haman, now tremble in fear. The day of the vengeance of our God has fully come to Nigeria. And they shall not escape. Operation Hupopodion (footstool) has commenced. More Power To You!!!” Although Okotie did not mention TB Joshua, many believe the musician-turned-pastor made the post about the late pastor. SaharaReporters had on Sunday reported how Prophet TB Joshua died on the way to the hospital. “He conducted a service yesterday evening. He had been sick for two days. He decided to go to the hospital after the evening programme. He died on the way to the hospital,” a source had told SaharaReporters. Joshua was born on June 12, 1963, in Arigidi, Akoko axis of Ondo State. Plans were underway for his 58th birthday, which was a few days away.