The National Assembly has passed the bill for the establishment of the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria Bill, 2021, which will help to deepen the fight against corruption in the public and private spheres of the country. SaharaReporters learnt that the CIFIPN Bill 2021 was passed into law, after it was read for the third time on the floor of both chambers of the assembly.  It was gathered that the bill was first introduced by the eighth assembly, which had control from 2015 to 2019, but it could not pass the anti-corruption bill, because of the delay in the presidential assent; which then led to the introduction of the bill. The CIFIPN President, Dr Enape Ayishetu, told newsmen in Abuja that the law would produce “professionals in the usage of Forensic Science and technological tools and techniques in the investigation of frauds in both public and private sectors of the economy.” Ayishetu said, “A few of the objectives of the Bill, are; to establish a Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals in Nigeria in order to develop and train Professionals in this specialised field. Two, to promote high professional standards, ethics and etiquettes amongst practitioners in the field, in a bid to stem fraudulent and corruption practices, and as well develop a mechanism for fraud prevention, as a proactive measure against corruption generally. “Also, it is to fill the existing huge vacuum in our archaic and conventional system of investigation with the introduction of a unique operation of forensic science to help the country from expending its scarce foreign exchange to hire foreign expatriates to do forensic investigations in Nigeria. “It is instructive to note that our Institute has been in existence since 2009. And over the years, we have trained professionals in the field of forensic science and technology, targeted at inculcating the requisite skills and acumen in the pragmatic areas of forensic investigation and management, to wit; forensic analysis to eliminate material misstatement, whether caused by error or fraud. “Others are; voice recognition analysis; fingerprint and signature analysis; digital forensic and cyber security; crime scene investigation; global anti-corruption compliance and enforcement; litigation support, forensic investigation capacities, preparation of forensic reports, fraud risk management, corporate fraud analysis, fraud prevention, and detection and investigation. “We are calling on all Nigerians to come and be part of the Forensics Profession. The profession is open for all professionals in the various fields of endeavours. There is a training arm of the institute that will studiously guide you and equip you.”