The Supreme Court panel in Manhattan has suspended the licence of Rudy Giuliani, former United States’ President, Donald Trump’s lawyer over false claims he made during the 2020 general elections, New York Daily News reports.  Guiliani’s licence to practise law in New York was revoked on Thursday, with a panel of judges ruling that the former mayor has violated his legal oath by peddling “demonstrably false” claims about the 2020 election on behalf of his client, Trump.  The five-judge Manhattan Supreme Court panel concluded in a blistering 33-page ruling that Giuliani’s continued perpetuation of the thoroughly debunked claim that the election was stolen from Trump “threatens the public interest” and erodes faith in American democracy".  “The seriousness of respondent’s uncontroverted misconduct cannot be overstated,” the judges wrote about Giuliani. “This country is being torn apart by continued attacks on the legitimacy of the 2020 election and of our current president, Joseph R. Biden.”  The suspension, which takes effect immediately, is temporary for now. However, the judges wrote that it remains in effect “pending further proceedings before the Attorney Grievance Committee,” suggesting Giuliani may be permanently barred from practising law in New York.  Giuliani and his attorney, Bob Costello, did not immediately return requests.  SaharaReporters had on November 5 reported that Trump made false claims about Joe Biden stealing the election results.  As he made the false claims, major news channels like the NBC, BBC, Washington Post and others fact-checked him by either cutting him away before he finished speaking or notifying their audiences that Trump's claims were false.  Trump seemed subdued and nervous during the news conference.  He said, "If you count the legal votes I easily win," Trump said, providing no evidence for his claim. "If you count the illegal votes, they can try to steal the election from us."  There is no proof of this.  The president further said, "I've already decisively won many critical states, including massive victories."  "The pollsters got it knowingly wrong. We had polls that so were ridiculous, no blue wave that they predicted... but instead, there was a big red wave."  After months of discouraging his base from voting through the mail in a bid to prove that it was safe to go out and vote despite the Coronavirus pandemic, Trump lamented on Thursday evening that the mail-in ballots, which Biden advocated for as part of measure to stop the spread of COVID-19, were "one-sided".  He said, "It's amazing how those mail-in ballots are so one-sided."  "It's a corrupt system, and it makes people corrupt even if they aren't by nature." Again there is no evidence to prove this.