The management of the Nuhu Bamali Polytechnic in Kaduna State has announced the indefinite suspension of academic activities in the institution. A memo signed by the Acting Registrar noted that the suspension was necessary after Thursday's attack on the institution by gunmen.  The memo titled, 'Indefinite Suspension of Academic Activities' was signed on Friday by Mahmud Aliyu Kwarbal of the Information and Protocol office for the Acting Registrar. It read, “This is to inform all students and the entire Polytechnic Community that following the sad incidence of attack by kidnappers that occurred last night which created serious tension amongst students, the Management of the Polytechnic has suspended all academic activities indefinitely. “Students are to vacate the school premises immediately. However, IJMB students are excluded as their external examination which is conducted by Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria will commence on Tuesday, 15th June, 2021."On Thursday evening, about eight students and two lecturers were kidnapped after gunmen invaded the Polytechnic in the Zaria Local Government Area of the state.  SaharaReporters gathered that a student was also killed while others sustained injuries during the attack on Thursday night. The abducted lecturers are identified as Habila Nasai from General Studies Department and Adamu Shehu Shika from Accounting Department. Aliyu Kofa, Publicity Secretary of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnic (ASUP), said the wife of another lecturer, Ahmed Abdu, and two of his children were also kidnapped but released on Friday morning.He did not provide details as to how they were released, adding that two students sustained gunshot wounds. “One of them, Ahmed, from the department of statistics, died in the hospital from the injuries,” Kofa said in the statement. “While the other is still receiving medical attention at the clinic.” The attack is the latest in a series of abduction of students and pupils by bandits operating in the state. On March 11, 2021, gunmen abducted students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization, Afaka, Igabi LGA, in Kaduna. On April 20, 2021, students of Greenfield University were kidnapped from the school campus in Chikun LGA, still in the state.