The President of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Sunday Asefon has vowed to disrupt the planned June 12 Democracy Day nationwide protest, SaharaReporters has gathered. Civil society organisations and human rights activists have called for a nationwide protest on June 12 against the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Sunday Asefon According to various publicity posters, the protest will make 14 critical demands which are: Abolish 1999 constitution, End terrorism, End banditry, Isa Pantami must go (Minister of Communications and Digital Economy who expressed sympathy for terrorists), Free all detained activists, End insecurity, Justice for all EndSARS victims, Free Kogi2 (Two anti-President Muhammadu Buhari protesters – Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka – who are being detained in Kogi State), Buhari Must Go, Revert electricity tariffs, End ASUP (Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics) strike, Revert fuel price, Revert party deregistration, and Free Nicholas Mbah.  Asefon in meeting with Nigeria's Inspector of General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba on Tuesday however promised to mobilise against those planning the June 12 rally, using his power as NANS president, a source told SaharaReporters.  “He met with the Inspector of General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba three days ago but the IGP refused to take pictures with him, telling him there was a crisis in NANS and he was not sure Asefon was in control.  “Asefon then told him he is the original President with the structure of the students’ body.  “He then asked the IGP for assistant and the condition given to him was to mobilise against the people planning protests on June 12 if truly he is the original NANS President.  “He immediately promised the IGP to consider it done. He said they will initially join the rally and later disrupt it,” the source said.  When contacted by SaharaReporters, Asefon admitted meeting the IGP on Tuesday but described the accusation as a fallacy.  “That’s a fallacy, I met the IGP based on the insecurity in the country and I reported to him the stand of Nigerian students. I told him we want the police to be more proactive in protecting Nigerian students. That we want a safe school, that we want a safe campus. And we also discussed with him about our planned security submit," he said.  On why NANS won’t be involved in the planned protest, he said, “It's everywhere on social media that some people are asking for #BuhariMustGo #EndNigeria #EndAPC #EndPDP and others which is not the interest of our own agitation. Our agitation is safe campus for Nigerian students.”