Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has urged the Federal Government to sign ‘rules of engagement’ with the San Francisco-based social media giant, Twitter over its usage in Nigeria. Sanwo-Olu disclosed this on Monday during an interview on Arise TV’s ‘The Morning Show’ programme.  The Governor asserted that people are losing money every day, noting that the issues can be resolved between the both sides. “People are losing money but there are also security issues. Let us be circumspect and not throw the baby away with the bathwater.” “Regarding the specifics around Twitter, I cannot sit down here with all of the responsibilities that I have and fly (sic) the commander in chief of the armed forces. He would have the prognosis and security information that I do not have. I cannot begin to say that was he’s done is right or wrong. “What I see is that on both sides, there are issues that can be resolved between Twitter and the (Federal) Government and I think what they’ve done is not a ban but a suspension. So, in the period of suspension, let us sit down…we need to have that conversation with them (Twitter). “In other climes, they sign some underlying agreements on the rules of engagement. I am not sure that is happening here. Having said that, the Federal Government can also handle things a lot better because of the number of e-commerce, because of the number of youths that are doing a lot of things on the internet and we cannot throw that away. “I believe there could be better restrain and management from both sides. In the next one or two days, let us see that happen. Lagos is hurting, our youths are hurting, Nigeria is hurting, let us understand the issues and put it behind us so that we don’t politicise it.” Nigerian government recently suspended Twitter operations in Nigeria, citing the “persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence”. The action came after Twitter deleted a controversial comment made by Buhari in which he made reference to Nigerian Civil War.