The Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom says President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), have failed Nigerians in all areas of governance. Ortom said this on Thursday while inaugurating Moniya-Iseyin Road, held at the Akinyele Local Government Secretariat, Moniya, Ibadan.  He said the road will enhance the socio-economic development of the state and play a major role in engineering a modern Oyo State. Ortom, who appeared to be bitter about the situation of the country, described the ruling APC as a complete failure. Ortom added that the PDP has been demonstrating good leadership as evident in its governors delivering laudable infrastructure projects. He said, “The PDP is working despite all the economic and security challenges. The PDP has demonstrated leadership and that is why we are commissioning this road today, which is amazing. “I want to challenge the APC in this country, because they have failed. Economically, security-wise, they have failed. Socially and politically, the APC government is in deficit. Government is all about providing security for lives and property. Government is about providing infrastructure like the one we are doing here today. “Let me, once again call on the APC Federal Government to rise up and give leadership because our people are in pain. From North-East, North-West to North-Central to South-South, South-East and South-West, everyone is faced with security challenges and without security, there can be no meaningful development except in PDP-controlled states. “In 2015, the mantle of leadership was given to APC. But from all indications, it is clear to every Nigerian that APC does not have the capacity to deliver. Go and check, economically, how much was one dollar when APC came into government in 2015? "What was the nature of our security in this country when APC took over power? What was our social relationship in this country? Politically too, where are we? But let us work hard and be praying. As we pray, whether Muslims or Christians, let us also apply work because faith without work is death."