The police in Enugu says it has arrested eight suspects for their alleged involvement in the kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism and unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. Police spokesman in the State, A.S.P. Daniel Ndukwe, said this in a statement on Tuesday in Enugu.  Ndukwe said that the command recovered five firearms, including an AK-47 rifle, ten live cartridges and one empty shell of 7.62mm calibre of ammunition. Other items recovered, he said, included two motor vehicles, two tricycles, six motorcycles, one dagger, one machete and some quantity of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp. The police spokesman said that the feat was part of the actualisation of the mandates of Operation Restore Peace in the State. He said that on June 13, operatives attached to Anti-Cultism Squad arrested a 27-year-old suspect after information alleging that a group of armed cultists were breaching public peace at the Obofia community in Nkanu West Local Government Area. Upon interrogation, the suspect confessed to being a member of Vikings confraternity and that the cult group was having a meeting in the area before police operatives busted them. "Recovered after preliminary investigation were two locally-made double-barrelled pistols, seven live cartridges, one black-coloured Toyota Camry and one black-coloured Honda Accord, with registration numbers: UWN 394 GU and B.D.G. 14 E.G. "Others are two yellow-coloured tricycles, with registration number ENU 518 WN and JRV 228 VD respectively; six motorcycles of different makes, empty bottles of Squadron drink and some quantity of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp," he said. Ndukwe also said that the operatives attached to the Oji-River Police Division, in synergy with Neighbourhood Watchmen, recovered one AK-47 rifle with breech number: 038244 without magazine. He said that the AK-47 rifle was recovered in a thick bush at Ude village in Ugwuoba community of Oji-River Local Government Area on June 8 at 5 pm. "The recovery is the sequel to operatives storming the thicket on receipt of information, alleging that a group of armed hoodlums were sighted, perfecting plans to carry out robbery operations," he said. The police spokesman noted that on June 6, at about 5:30 am, operatives attached to Anti-Cultism Squad arrested three suspects, all of Ugwuagor Abakpa-Nike, Enugu. "Upon interrogation, the suspects, who confessed to being members of Black Axe confraternity, surrendered one cut-to-size locally-made single-barrelled gun loaded with one live cartridge," he said. Ndukwe noted that operatives attached to Ogui Police Division on June 4 arrested another suspect, based on intelligence, and recovered one locally-made pistol with two live cartridges and one empty shell of 7.62mm calibre ammunition. "Upon interrogation, the suspect led the operatives to the arrest of another suspect, whom, he claimed, gave him the said firearm and ammunition," he said. The police spokesman said that the various cases were currently undergoing further discreet investigations within the command. Ndukwe said, "The Commissioner of Police in the State, Mohammed Aliyu, has commended efforts of the operatives, the Neighborhood Watch Group and law-abiding citizens who contributed in making the breakthroughs possible. "The commissioner urged the operatives to remain resolute and resilient, even as the command unwaveringly works towards maximally actualising mandates of Operation Restore Peace, as ordered by the Inspector-General of Police, Mr Baba Usman," he said.