Chairman, Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta state, Victor Asaba, has been a subject of public criticism for parading a set of refurbished furniture and a renovated toilet as his achievements. The council chairman also included visits to an orphanage and hospital donations of items there as his achievements after spending 100 days in office.  The council chairman also listed yet-to-be distributed insecticides to some selected political associates and party members, proposed free medical check-ups and treatment in the rural areas as part of his achievements. The council chairman had posted on his verified social media account a set of refurbished furniture and other things he referred to as his achievements. The post however attracted public condemnation, with some people describing his so-called achievements as a 'monumental failure, shame, and disgrace' to his office.  A cross-section of Isoko South residents who criticised the council chairman for parading refurbished set of furniture and renovated toilet as his achievements in office told him much more was expected of him. An indigene of Isoko South, who is also an Abuja-based human rights lawyer, Anthony Ejumejowo, said, "If it's true that those pictures you displayed are your achievements in 100 days in office, you may be the worst occupant of the office ever. The Chairman may not have been popularly elected but if the narratives and pictures above are what he regards as achievements, then the bar of governance at the council is at its lowest. "I urge the chairman that he can do better and I expect that when next he rolls out the list of his achievements, they will be tangible projects. Please, next time sir, it will be nice of you to also state the cost and other necessary scopes of your projects." Also reacting to the council chairman's claim, an indigene of Oleh, Obaro Itewo, noted that "in just 100 days, it’s been different strokes for different local government areas. While some chairmen have already hit the ground running in what typifies the assertion that they came prepared, some are still struggling to settle down." On his part, Obibi Onamakowho Marvins, an indigene of Isoko South, expressed what he called "disappointment and shame." "So how come what has not been done is counted as an achievement?" he asked. "It will serve you well if you surround yourself with those that can tell you the truth, bring good suggestions," he added. A former member of the state executive council of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who spoke on condition of anonymity, also criticised the council chairman for not living up to expectation, saying, "Victor is a huge disappointment." "We all knew right from the time when some cabal forced Victor Asasa on us as the Isoko South council chairman because of their personal interest and monthly kickbacks they will receive from the council's monthly allocations. Asasa is a failure already. "You will be shocked by the achievements of 100 days in office of some local government chairpersons. It's a big shame, the things Asasa reeled out as his achievements in 100 days in office are nothing to write home about and very shameful. He will be the worst chairman ever, just watch," he said.