Bandits have killed no fewer than 12 persons including a police inspector in a fresh attack on Wazoji village in Zamfara state. A source told SaharaReporters that the incident happened on Sunday. File Photo The source said the attackers came in a Hilux vehicle and motorcycles given to repentant bandits by Governor Bello Matawalle. He added that shops in the village were looted while several cows were also rustled during the attack. The incident comes a few days after gunmen killed 67 persons in Magarya ward, Kadawa community of the Zurmi Local Government Area of Zamfara state. SaharaReporters recently exposed how about 15 brand new Hilux vehicles were given to leaders of different 'repentant' groups of bandits by the governor. See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: Zamfara Gives 'Repentant' Bandits Hilux Vehicles, Millions Of Naira
0 Comments
4 Months Ago The governor also approved millions of naira to be given to the 'repentant' bandits as compensation.  EXCLUSIVE: Zamfara Gives 'Repentant' Bandits Hilux Vehicles, Millions Of Naira | Sahara ReportersA top military officer told SaharaReporters that the bandits now carry out attacks with some of the vehicles given to them by Matawalle.READ MORE: https://t.co/QxrV8FcES6 pic.twitter.com/6juCGMly6G  Zamfara, like many other states across the North, has witnessed sporadic attacks by bandits and kidnappers that have claimed the lives of many. The state government in 2019 entered into a peace agreement with the gunmen.



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: Identities Of "Repentant" Bandits Given Hilux Vehicles By Zamfara Governor, Matawalle Revealed
0 Comments
4 Months Ago But despite the accord, communities in the state are still being attacked and residents kidnapped and/or killed. A committee set up to investigate the menace of armed banditry in the region, headed by Mohammed Abubakar, a former Inspector General of Police, reported that in Zamfara State between June 2011 and May 2019, 4,983 women were widowed; 25,050 children were orphaned; and more than 190,000 people were displaced as a result of armed banditry. Last year, Governor Aminu Masari, Matawalle's counterpart in Katsina State, said his administration had to pull out of the peace deal it had with bandits that had been terrorising residents of the state. Masari said despite the peace deal, the gunmen continued to carry out attacks with their accomplices from Zamfara, Kaduna and Niger Republic, leading to “indiscriminate killings” and kidnappings in the state. He said, “The armed bandits have betrayed our trust in them, following a peace agreement earlier negotiated with them, in our quest to find a lasting peace in the state,” he was quoted as saying. "We chose dialogue for peaceful coexistence in the state and we have done our best; yet, the attacks continue. “As a result of the peace agreement, the government banned vigilance groups and identified cattle routes and facilitated free movements of bandits to convey their livestock to the markets.”