A Closed Circuit Television Camera footage has captured the moments when heavily armed soldiers and policemen invaded the residence of an Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, shooting dead his Personal Assistant, identified as Samuel Uzo Okoro, also known as Biggy. SaharaReporters obtained the footage from Njenje media, which revealed how the soldiers and policemen invaded the house on Sunday, June 6, dragged Ejiofor’s relations and staff members on the ground, after beating up and thereafter escaped with his red Toyota vehicle which was later abandoned and burnt with Biggy’s corpse in it. Ifeanyi Ejiofor The footage also captured how the soldiers and policemen ransacked the compound, firing gunshots at two of the CCTV cameras, while the other hidden ones captured their atrocities. SaharaReporters had on June 8 reported that the soldiers and policemen in a joint operation raided the IPOB top lawyer’s residence at Oraifite in the Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State. SaharaReporters had learnt that the burnt car, a 2013 Toyota Camry, including Okoro’s burnt corpse were discovered a day later at Okacha Junction, Nneni in the Anaocha Local Government Area of Anambra State. SaharaReporters had learnt that the red Toyota car containing the corpse was burnt by the NHSS Tactical Team – the joint name for the army, police, and Department of State Services operatives which attacked the house. The NHSS Tactical Team answers directly to Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba. A civil organisation, the International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law in an update sent to SaharaReporters had said the burning took place “about 30 minutes after the invading killer security operatives left the family house of Barrister Ifeanyi Ejiofor at Oraifite in the Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State and headed to the Anambra State Police Command headquarters at Awka.” Intersociety said, “We had earlier informed the world that four innocent citizens involving the lawyer’s elder brother, Joel Ejiofor, driver, Elder Felix Emeka Okonkwo who is 55 years of age; the lawyer’s gardener/flower cutter and compound sweeper, Lawrence Ugochukwu Okafor, 20 years old and gateman, Ikenna Chibuike, 35 years old; were abducted and taken away after the Gestapo invasion and attack. “The duo of the gardener and the gateman had lived in the lawyer’s family house at Oraifite for years while his driver and personal assistant lived with him in his Abuja residence. The fifth citizen, Samuel Uzo Okoro, 43-year-old lawyer’s Personal Assistant for many years, was shot and killed on the premises of the lawyer’s family house, and Joel Ejiofor, his elder brother was abducted.” SaharaReporters had also reported how Ejiofor in a statement he signed, confirmed the attack, saying the security agencies should “immediately investigate their personnel that invaded my peaceful home, killed, stole and destroyed my valuables.” The army and the police have kept mum on the incident ever since. Ejiofor had said, “Can we take it that some elements who are hugely benefiting from the hostilities in our region are after my life; apparently, they are enjoying the present genocide going on in the South-East which my intervention was designed to curtail? “Interestingly the Anambra State Police Commissioner confirmed to me that he was never aware of the operation. How did these killers in army and police uniform drive all the way from Abuja to Anambra to unleash mayhem without notifying the CP of the state? “I, therefore, demand for the immediate and unconditional release of my domestic staff abducted from my home during this unprovoked attack. “Furthermore, I call on the Inspector General of Police, Chief of Army Staff, Director General of State Security Services, and the Director-General of Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps to immediately investigate their personnel that invaded my peaceful home, killed, stole and destroyed my valuables. The perpetrators of this evil shall be publicly named and prosecuted without further delay.”