The Interim Administrator, Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Col. Milland Dixon Dikio (rtd) has said it is high time the ex-agitators graduated from the mentality of receiving N65,000 monthly stipends. Speaking to leaders of the second phase amnesty programme in Yenagoa at the weekend, Dikio regretted that the ex-agitators had allowed the stipends to stop them from harnessing their entrepreneurial potential.  Describing the stipend as inadequate, he challenged the ex-agitators to wear their thinking caps and key into PAP's vision of making them successful entrepreneurs to enable them to exit the stipend regime. He said it was only reasonable to end the Disarmament Demobilisation and Reintegration (DDR) aspect of the programme to begin a post-DDR phase of the scheme.Dikio said for the region to move forward, the scheme must be changed from 'amnesty' to the Niger Delta Stabilisation Programme (NDSP). He said with the current status "there are things we can't do and there are countries we can't enter".He said: "We must establish the Niger Delta Stabilisation Programme. We must change that name, terminate the DDR, and open another thing. I have operated DDR in Cameroon and Angola. As far as this name 'amnesty' remains, there are things that we can't do and there are countries we can't enter. We can't make progress sitting in one place. My job is to make you think beyond the N65,000 mentality."He said the PAP was offering a platform to the ex-agitators through the cooperative model to enable them to develop and own functional businesses, adding that all the beneficiaries of the scheme must organise themselves under cooperatives."You must think of how you can graduate from stipends after 11 years. I am offering you a platform. You have to form yourselves into cooperatives. You are better than this stronghold of N65,000," he said. Dikio also asked the ex-militants and other youths in the Niger Delta to stop blocking major roads for protests and issuing ultimatums to oil companies to leave the region.He said such public display of violent behaviour was part of the reasons why most persons outside the region claimed the Niger Delta was not safe."This kind of behaviour is making people say it is not safe here. I was to organise a workshop and I chose Port Harcourt, Owerri, and Warri. But they turned it down and I said I would not hold the conference in Abuja. If you are not choosing any of the venues then keep your conference. They later chose Port Harcourt. "We must all begin to think of how to bring companies back to the Niger Delta. If they are not here, your PhD is in vain. We have told you that after your scholarship, you must work first for Niger Delta for two years. It is up to you and me to make the Niger Delta a better place. "We will graduate the programme to Niger Delta Stabilisation Programme. Do you want to stay in a house where the landlord wakes up every time and asks you to leave? Then why are you quick in giving oil companies a quit notice?"Why will you go and block roads? What about the people passing through the road? If you want to prosper, do you open your shop or close it? You must open it," he added.