Popular activist, Aisha Yesufu has said security agents have the mandate to go after bandits and kill them. Yesufu, who took to her Twitter handle on Monday, said bandits have killed and inflicted terror on the land, hence the justification for their annihilation. Aisha Yesufu She stated this, countering the stance of a popular Islamic cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, who stated that killing bandits will only worsen the security situation in the country. Gumi, in an interview with Punch, insisted that the government could not protect schools without first finding a means to end banditry in the country. See Also






Insecurity
Stop Killing Bandits, They Are Victims Too—Sheikh Gumi
0 Comments
1 Hour Ago “To secure schools, why not engage the bandits. Engage them; they are not many. You can count them with your fingers. How can you guard schools? It is not possible. In the whole North-West, they may not be more than 100,000 bandits. And that is just a drop in the ocean. That is talking about those with weapons; because not all of them have weapons. Ninety percent of those who have weapons use them to protect themselves against cattle rustlers. They are victims too. Aerial bombardments will only worsen the situation because when you start killing their children, you remember they also have our children,” he added. But, in a Twitter post, Yesufu explained that God had said transgressors, such as bandits, should be dealt with. She wrote, ”Bandits should be killed! They have killed and inflicted terror on the land. God said we should never be transgressors but we should not run or turn our backs on those who transgress against us. So the security agents must go after bandits/terrorists and annihilate them.”  Bandits should be killed! They have killed and inflict terror on the land. God said we should never be transgressors but we should not run or turn our backs on those who transgress against us.So the security agents must go after bandits/terrorists and annihilate them. https://t.co/aNuERdz02n 