No fewer than six terrorists of the Islamic State West African Province (ISWAP) were killed by operatives of the Nigerian Army in Dikwa, Borno State, the Army has said.  A statement issued on Wednesday by the force's spokesman, Mohammed Yerima, said the terrorists had tried to infiltrate Dikwa town but were counter-attacked by soldiers who killed six terrorists and injured many others. File photo used to illustrate story. He said the confusion that ensued made the remaining terrorists flee the scene, leaving behind their trucks, guns and ammunition.   The statement read, “The gallant troops of Operation HADIN KAI decisively dealt with ISWAP terrorists who attempted to infiltrate Dikwa town on Tuesday, 8 June 2021.  “The terrorist elements mounted on 5 gun trucks, some on motorcycles and other foot soldiers tried to infiltrate the town through Gajibo axis but were met with superior firepower by troops in conjunction with air bombardment by Air Task Force.  “The marauding terrorists were thoroughly vanquished forcing them to withdraw in a high state of confusion abandoning their truck, guns and ammunition.  “During the encounter, 6 members of the terrorist group were neutralised, several others were severely injured while the survivors withdrew in total disarray, leaving behind their dead colleagues.  “Items recovered during the encounter include 1 Gun Truck, 8 Ak-47 rifles, 40 rounds of 7.62mm Special, 39 special ammo, 3 motorcycles and 6 magazines.  “To mop up the area, troops conducted exploitation in the early hours of today in conjunction with Civilian Joint Task Force and Hunters along the terrorist withdrawal routes and recovered 90 rounds of 7.62 mm x 54 on links belonging to the fleeing terrorists.”   He, however, said three soldiers sustained various degrees of injury and were receiving treatment at the field ambulance in Dikwa.  He also said the Chief of Army Staff, Faruk Yahaya has extended his commendation to the gallant troops over the feat, urging them to remain resolute and steadfast.