Members of the South East Governors’ Forum have distanced themselves from the agitations of secessionist groups in the region and other parts of the country. According to Daily Trust, they also condemned the violence that followed the agitations which led to the loss of lives and destruction of properties.  Recall that a proscribed group in the region, Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), has been fighting for the secession of the region from Nigeria. The group has been blamed for all the violent attacks on security agencies and government’s infrastructures in the Southeast recently. The governors of states in the region met on Saturday in Enugu State to deliberate on ways to tackle the security challenges and restore peace in the region. The Chairman of the Forum and Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, spoke on behalf of the governors at the end of the meeting, saying: “We condemn in totality, the activities of violent secessionist groups in the South East and elsewhere. “We firmly proclaim that we do not support them, they do not speak for South East. “The impression that South-East leaders are silent over some of our youths’ agitations for secession is not correct. “South-East Governors, Ohanaeze President, National Assembly members, notable leaders had come out publicly many times in the past to speak against such agitations. “In order not to mismanage the unfortunate situation, South-East leaders have set up a committee to engage such youths to stop and allow elders speak to address such fears,” he said. They appealed to the security agencies to discharge their duties within the rules of engagement and the law. They also urged members of the National Assembly from the South East to support the creation of state police in the ongoing constitutional amendment. “We, the Igbos do reaffirm our commitment to one united Nigeria under a platform of justice, equity of rights, fairness, love, and respect for one another. “The meeting endorsed our South East joint security outfit – Ebubeagu – and asked them to work with security agencies and to respect the rights and privileges of all those living in South East and our visitors,” Governor Umahi said while reading the communique issued at the end of the meeting.