The United States Mission in Nigeria on Friday advised its citizens to keep away from planned protests across Nigeria on June 12. Several groups have announced their intentions to protest on June 12, designated as Democracy Day.  According to various publicity posters, the protest will make 14 critical demands which are: Abolish 1999 constitution, end terrorism, end banditry, Isa Pantami must go (Minister of Communications and Digital Economy who expressed sympathy for terrorists), Free all detained activists, end insecurity, justice for all EndSARS victims. Others are Free Kogi2 (Two anti-President Muhammadu Buhari protesters – Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka – who are being detained in Kogi State), Buhari Must Go, Revert electricity tariffs, End ASUP (Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics) strike, Revert fuel price, Revert party deregistration, and Free Nicholas Mbah. In an advisory targeted at US citizens, the embassy advised them to keep a low profile and avoid the areas where the protests will hold. “Several groups have announced their intentions to protest nationwide on June 12, Democracy Day. Police presence and response can be expected nationwide, including in Abuja where government events are scheduled to celebrate the national holiday and in Lagos where simultaneous protests are planned,” the advisory read. “The likely locations for the protests in Abuja will be at Unity Fountain (Hilton Hotel area), Wuse, Berger Roundabout, Aguiyi Ironsi Way, Airport Road, and British Circle. In Lagos, the likely locations for protests will be Lekki Toll Gate and Gani Fawehinmi Park. Calls for the protests suggest they may begin as early as 7 am. “Actions to Take: Avoid the areas of the demonstrations. Exercise caution if unexpectedly in the vicinity of large gatherings or protests. Monitor local media for updates. Keep a low profile.”  Message to U.S. CitizensDemonstration AlertLocation: NigeriaEvent: Nationwide Protests on Democracy Day, June 12 Police presence & response can be expected nationwide including in Abuja & Lagos.Read more: https://t.co/xbWhHfzMR3 