An eight-month-old pregnant woman, Chioma Okoro, has cried out to the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, to direct the Intelligence Response Team to release her husband, Chukwudi Okoro. Chioma told SaharaReporters on Saturday morning that her husband, Chukwudi, is still being held at the IRT because the family had not given N1.5million to the IRT police in Abuja as demanded.  SaharaReporters gathered that the four other South-Easterners who were raided alongside Okoro had regained their freedom after parting with at least a N1million as bribes to the police officers. The men were raided by the joint team of the police and the Nigerian Army on May 24 in Owerri, Imo State, and labelled as members of the Indigenous People of Biafra and the unknown gunmen. 



See Also






Corruption
EXPOSED: After Taking N1million Bribe, Inspector General of Police Team In Abuja Releases South-East Youths Framed For Being ESN Members 
0 Comments
2 Days Ago Chioma Okoro, who is due to give birth in July, begged the police top echelon to release her husband, who is a struggling tricycle driver and the first in his family. She said, "He is the only one in detention among the five of his set right now. The police told us to pay N1.5million to secure his release. He is the eldest brother. He has only two younger brothers who are in school. They don't have such an amount. "My husband needs help. He does not have such an amount. The tricycle he is riding is on hire purchase, and he has not even completed the hire purchase. I am not doing anything for now. I am eight months pregnant. I am a hairdresser. Things are very difficult for me and the family. "He has been arrested since May 25. He was labelled as an unknown gunman. We last spoke on Wednesday and what my husband said was I should try and find a means. We are all tired." SaharaReporters had earlier reported that the IGP Intelligence Response Team in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, collected at least N1million bribes as bail before releasing South-East youths and artisans raided as members of the IPOB's Eastern Security Network. SaharaReporters had learnt from the families of the victims, who did not want their names in print to avoid police victimisation. They paid the huge sums through their nose before securing the release of their relations. SaharaReporters gathered that the victims were raided in the South-East and brought to detention at the IGP'S IRT office in Abuja. "The Investigating Police Officer at the IRT's team holding them is one Inspector Daniel. They were five in number taken to the IRT office, formerly called Abattoir. "We paid about N1million to secure Chigaemezu (one of the victims). In June, he was released in June by the police in Abuja," one of the family members had said.  