The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said there was no accreditation and no voting by the All Progressives Congress members at the Anambra State governorship primary election.  This is despite the party declaring a former Senator who represented Anambra South Senatorial District, Andy Uba, as the winner. Andy Uba INEC in its report on the primary election noted that it sent out monitors to the election who reported that there was no accreditation and voting in the various places from 8am till 5pm when they left.  The report was titled, “Report of APC Anambra State Governorship Primary Held on June 26, 2021.”  It was written by U. lbe, from the Election and Party Monitoring, and Modibbo Belle, Principal and Executive officer, Election and Party Monitoring, INEC Headquarters.  The report reads, “The Anambra State governorship primaries of the APC was scheduled to hold on June 26. The schedule of the primaries was conveyed in a notification received by the commission from the National Secretariat of the party.  “In the notification, the party indicated that it adopted Direct Primaries as the mode of primaries. Consequently, the party provided the list of candidates and venues for primaries.  “The party in compliance with INEC guidelines for direct primaries made their membership registers for Anambra State for inspection by officials of the commission. The commission officials inspected the APC membership registers for Anambra from Saturday, June 19 to Tuesday, June 22.  “To ensure effective monitoring of the APC primaries, the commission deployed 326 officers to monitor the primaries at the designated voting centres. The commission equally deployed officials to monitor collation of results at the local government areas.  “The monitors were deployed by 8am and recalled by 5pm on the date of the primaries. Note that some monitors remained at the centres till 5.30pm before returning to the local government offices of the commission.  “The monitors deployed by the Commission noted that APC election officials did not arrive at the designated voting centres between 8.00 am and 5.30 pm, thus accreditation and voting did not take place during the period.  “Electoral officials and materials were not available at the voting centres for the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primaries scheduled for 26 June 2021 in Anambra State up till 5.30 pm when INEC monitors withdrew from the field.  “Contrary to the provisions of Section 18 of the Guidelines for the Conduct of Direct Primaries issued by APC, accreditation of party members did not take place in any of the voting centres in Anambra State; up to the time INEC monitors were recalled by 5.30 pm.  “The Commission's monitors did not witness accreditation, voting, counting of votes or collation or declaration.”