National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu has expressed the belief that youths across Nigeria will provide a progressive and effective form of government that will move Nigeria forward. He admitted that the country is at a critical stage of debating whether to remain united as one Nigeria or break up. Bola Tinubu The former Lagos State governor however added that like many hurdles of the past, Nigeria will scale through its current challenges, Vanguard reports. The APC chieftain also stated that there should be a platform for Nigerians to talk about their differences. But he ruled out the separation of the country. Tinubu said this at a democracy lecture organised by the Nigerian Youth Congress with the theme “Nigerian Democratic System and Good Governance: The Journey So Far,” in Abuja. “Nigeria seats at a crucial junction. Do we advance by doing what is right or do we stagnate by settling for what is easy? “Our nation’s journey is one of continuous struggles. We have struggled many times, yet never shall we fall. We are Nigerians and shall remain so. “Of course, much work needs to be done. But it is time to recognise the points at which we fight ourselves. It is one that demands further reforms and evolution. “We need to continue to transform and improve so that we perfect good and effective governance in Nigeria for all citizens,” Tinubu said. Represented by James Faleke, a member of the House of Representatives, Tinubu urged Nigerian youths to work together to solve the nation’s problems. This, he said, could be achieved through dialogue and positive engagement with the political elite. He added, “Our youths are the engine by which our future and protection will be powered. Our journey till date will be further defined by your efforts and actions. This journey should not and cannot be a destructive process. "We must manage the necessary change in a peaceful and democratic manner and ensure the continued unity of our nation, its people, and collective potentials. “To perfect good and effective government is not going to come solely from the Nigerian elites. It will virtually come from the youths. “This is not a time for you to falter. It’s a time for you to stand up and help push this great nation forward. It is time for Nigeria to evolve.” Speaking, Minister of State for Education, Dr. Emeka Nwajiuba, lamented that despite the achievements made by the country under the presidential system of government, some sections of the country were agitating for restructuring to the 1963 republican constitution. He said, “Many of our citizens are investing a lot of time arguing over Nigeria’s structure. Do we restructure the country or restructure its power? Anything other than having a developmental mindset, for me, is a distraction. “The Nigerian federation is different from other federal systems in the world in the sense that the centre created the federating units and not the federating units coming together to form the centre. So, the management of our federal structure should be unique to us alone.”