Three students of Federal Government College, Birnin-Yauri in Kebbi state have been killed during a gun duel between bandits and vigilantes. SaharaReporters had reported how bandits on motorcycles from Rijau forest stormed the school on Thursday after overpowering the mobile police unit guarding the school, killing one officer.  The gunmen also went away with four staff members and about 30 students.  PHOTONEWS: Panic As Bandits Abduct Teachers, Female Students Of Federal Government College In Kebbi State pic.twitter.com/emNtzRpu35  A source told SaharaReporters on Friday that three of the students were killed after vigilantes had a gun duel with the bandits in Makuku village, Sakaba Local Government Area of the state. He added that the gunmen also abandoned some of their captives. “Three of the students were killed during a gun duel between vigilante group and the gunmen in Makuku village. Two girls and one boy. Their bodies have been deposited at the General Hospital in Dirindaji,” the source said. Meanwhile, some students, who were forcibly taken by armed bandits at the school have managed to escape on Friday.  Our Abductors Were Not Nigerians, Escaped Kebbi School Student Says | Sahara ReportersDuring the attack, police officers on the ground were said to have been overpowered, leading to the death of an officer.READ MORE: https://t.co/fKC3YnAxib pic.twitter.com/rOhbtPYUD5  According to a report by Vanguard, a source in Yauri confirmed that some security agencies had launched an aerial bombardment in the forest where the kidnappers were hiding. The source added that he saw at least 80 dead bodies of the bandits. He stated that, contrary to reports that, they were rescued, they took advantage of the bombardment and escaped as he could not give the exact number of the escapees he said a handful of them had escaped.The kidnap is the latest in a series of violent attacks targeted at schools in Northern Nigeria. Not less than 800 students have been abducted in the attacks since December 2020.