The National Association of Nigerian Students Joint Campus Committee, Ogun State has announced its intention to join the nationwide protest on June 12. A statement jointly signed by the Chairman, Adeyemi Ajasa and the spokesman, Abdul-Maliq Ibrahim on Wednesday, said the protest is being organised against insecurity, banditry and kidnapping in Ogun State. File photo used to illustrate story. The statement read, “Prior to our emergence as the executive of NANS/JCC OGUN AXIS, our manifestoes are hinged on providing an effective administration, quality representation and all-embracing stewardship. See Also






ACTIVISM
31 Cities Confirmed For Anti-Buhari Mega Protest On June 12
0 Comments
6 Days Ago “We hitherto declare war against banditry and kidnappers as they bedevilled growth and development of this great nation. In our bid to keep navigating the path we once vowed under the leadership of Comrade Adeyemi Samson Ajasa and to adhere to instructions and the Revolutionary footsteps of our National President in the person of Comrade Sunday Asefon, we hereby declare the 12th day of June 2021 as ‘A Day To Protest Against Insecurity, Banditry And Kidnapping In Ogun State’. “There may be times we are powerless to prevent injustice, there must never be a time we fail to protest and seek justice for our fundamental human rights as Nigerians. “This peaceful protest is to demonstrate our disapproval to the menace and to highlight the major bugbears troubling our Nigeria. “To harness the power of struggle and protest to liberating the country and Ogun state from her oppressors. Hence, we need to get up and be on our feet as progressives to demand for our right peacefully.  “As leaders, we won't give up the fight against insecurity, banditry and kidnapping in Ogun State as we believe it is our collective responsibility. Insecurity is the mother of danger and the grandmother of destruction. “Greatest Nigerian Students! The leadership of the axis will give details of the protest before the said date.” Civil society organisations and human rights activists have vowed to organise a nationwide protest on June 12, Nigeria's Democracy Day, a day set aside to honour the late Chief MKO Abiola.The presidential election of June 12, 1993 was won by Abiola but it was annulled by the military regime of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida.