A law enforcement officer identified as Popoola Abayomi has been arrested for selling illicit drugs to students of a federal university and cult members in Ogun State. The drug dealer who serves in the Lagos State Command of the undisclosed security agency was arrested on Wednesday, June 15, 2021, after agents monitored activities at his wife's shop for days. File photo used to illustrate story His wife’s shop was said to be used as his sales point in the Camp area of Abeokuta, according to Daily Trust. A spokesman for National Drug Law and Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Femi Babafemi, said on Sunday in Abuja that one of his salesmen, a motorcycle rider known as Ogah, was trailed to the location around 8 pm and arrested with six pinches of Colorado weighing 1.17grammes before Popoola, who had been on the agency’s watchlist was nabbed with different illicit drugs including codeine, 17 bottles; cannabis, 22.26 grammes; tramadol, 230, 98 grammes; 61 tablets of flunitrazepam, 23.72 grammes; 113 tablets of molly, 48.16 grammes and sex drops, 43.92 grammes. “After the arrest of the two suspects, some student union officials of the institution blocked the NDLEA team with their official vehicle. The narcotic agents however restrained themselves and after hours of standoff succeeded in moving the suspects to custody,” Babafemi said. Similarly, one Adelodun Kamaldeen was arrested by operatives of the Oyo State Command of the NDLEA at General Area, Ilorin, Kwara State following the interception of a parcel containing cocaine and heroin that weighed 10.5 grammes and 4.8 grammes respectively on June 13. The following day, two ladies: Mary Peter, 40, and Mercy Oladele, 39, were arrested at Total Garden, Ibadan when NDLEA operatives acting on a tip-off, intercepted their commercial Micra car. The two women were arrested with seven bags of cannabis weighing 77.23 kg brought in from Ogbese, Ondo State, to supply a man they simply identified as Alhaji. According to them, they had earlier supplied the same Alhaji two bags before coming with the seven bags they were caught with. On Friday 18 June, operatives of the Oyo State Command of the agency, acting on intelligence raided the residence of one Alhaji Faruq at Elebu area, Akala Expressway, Oluyole LGA, Ibadan, where they recovered 43 ampoules of methylphenidate. Meanwhile, In Kaduna State, a drug trafficker, Segun Abraham, was arrested at the Panteka area of the state on 17 June with 211.5 kg of skunk while he was heading to Kano State. Also, a Nigerian returning from Pakistan, Ezenyeche Kingsley Ebuka, was arrested by NDLEA operatives at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Ikeja, Lagos with five pellets of heroin weighing 250 grammes discovered in his anus. The suspect had arrived at the ‘D’ arrival hall of the airport on 14 June on a Turkish airline flight from Pakistan with the illicit drug inserted in his anus. He, however, failed to deceive narcotic officers during the inward clearance of passengers on the flight. Commending the Ogun, Oyo, Kaduna, and the MMIA commands of the agency for sustaining the offensive action against illicit drug trafficking and the cartels running it, Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig-Gen. Buba Marwa warned that the NDLEA will not spare any law enforcement agent hiding under the privilege of their uniform to engage in narcotic business.