A gospel artiste and music producer based in Akure, Ebenezer Ayeni, popularly known as Heben, has been confirmed dead after he was allegedly shot by armed robbers at his residence a week to his wedding.  The Higher National Diploma II student of Music Department at the Polytechnic, Ibadan, was shot in his Apete apartment. SaharaReporters gathered that the armed robbers after collecting his belongings shot him at close range.  Our correspondent gathered that Ayeni was supposed to get married next Saturday in Ibadan before the incident happened. The talented deceased was a voice tutor and also had a studio in his name where he produced music in Ibadan.  Ayeni, who was also his school department's fellowship president, was rejected by doctors at the University College Hospital (UCH), where they demanded a police report before treating him.  According to his friends, Ayeni struggled for over three hours before he died as there was no doctor to attend to him.   A close friend of the deceased explained that Heben was rushed to University College Hospital (UCH) but he was not attended to because he could not provide a police report.  “We rushed him University College Hospital(UCH), Ibadan, Oyo State and the medical personnel demanded a police report before he could be attended to after we explained that he was shot by armed robbers. Then we rushed him to a private hospital —J-Rapha Hospital and they also refused to treat him without a police report.  His friend and course mate, Dare Fajomo who told our correspondent in Ibadan about the incident, said; "We are mourning. His death is a great lost to us. Nowhere is safe in Ibadan again. How could robbers kill such a young man with a promising future just like that?  "Next Saturday is his wedding. We have concluded plans to storm his wedding. He was a good and cool guy. Heben has gone," he said.  Meanwhile, many of the deceased's friends have taken to social media to express anger at the incident. One of the friends confirmed that Heben was set to get married.  The deceased was described as a healthy young man full of dreams, ambitions and very resourceful.