The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, refused to name and prosecute a Federal Ministry of Works and Housing director caught with N1billion because of certain shady considerations, top sources have revealed to SaharaReporters. SaharaReporters learnt that the director, who is the Chief Pay Officer of Ministry of Works, and Deputy Director in the ministry, Saliu Musa, is from Kebbi State and the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, also from the same state, waded in and asked the EFCC to mellow down on the matter. EFCC Chairman Bawa SaharaReporters gathered that the EFCC chairman covers up the matter because he is from the same state and did not want to cross Malami’s path. “The Chief Pay Officer of Ministry of Works, Deputy Director in the Ministry, Saliu Musa. He’s from Kebbi State. Although he forfeited the N1billion, he is still sitting in the ministry.



See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: EFCC Recovers N1 Billion From Permanent Secretary Working Directly With Works And Housing Minister, Fashola 
0 Comments
3 Days Ago “The EFCC chairman is covering up because he is from the same state. AGF Malami waded into his matter, and he was never detained,” the source revealed. SaharaReporters had on June 17 reported that the EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, had in May while appearing before the Senate Committee on Finance, said the agency recovered over N1 billion from the bank account of a civil servant. “It is good for us to observe for now and wait for your committee to conclude its work so that whatever report you have and anyone that your committee decides, we are ready to take it up from there,” he had said. “We have recovered over N1 billion sitting in the account of a civil servant last week.” Bawa, however, refused to mention the name of the individual civil servant. Speaking to SaharaReporters on Thursday, a source at the anti-graft agency had identified the civil servant as a Permanent Secretary working with Fashola. “The civil servant the chairman was talking about is the Permanent Secretary working directly with Fashola,” the source said.