A legal counsel, Barrister Aloy Ejimakor has expressed confidence that his client, Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) will get justice. Though, the legal practitioner stated that the nature of arrest and arraignment of Kanu on Tuesday were things to worry about, he reiterated that the IPOB leader will get justice.  While he said he was not in Abuja on Tuesday when the arraignment went down, he added that the international community and the Nigerian people are observing with keen interest. Ejimakor made this disclosure in an exclusive interview with SaharaReporters on Wednesday on his reaction to the arrest, extradition and trial of the pro-Biafra separatist leader. Kanu, the IPOB leader was apprehended outside the United Kingdom during the weekend and brought to Nigeria to continue his trial at a Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday. Justice Binta Nyako ruled that he should be in the custody of the Department of Security Services (DSS) till the next hearing on July 26. While responding, Ejimakor said, "I have not met Nnamdi Kanu because I wasn't in Abuja yesterday when the whole matter broke. See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: How IPOB Leader, Nnamdi Kanu Was Arrested By Nigerian Government
0 Comments
21 Hours Ago "Well, first of all let me state here clearly not only as a lawyer but also as a human being that I have a profound confidence in the capacity of the Nigerian judiciary to render justice in this matter. "The concern I have is the process of his arrest and arraignment in court yesterday. And given the process of the whole saga calls for concern for every man or woman of conscience. "I do hope because of the international spotlight on the matter and the delicate nature of this matter, the entire nation is looking at it and I think government will do the responsible thing of treating him fairly." The lawyer to the IPOB leader also revealed that it could not be ascertained that Kanu jumped bail in 2017 owing to the situations around his non-appearance before the court. Ejimakor also said there are possibilities that Kanu might get a bail, adding that those processes are before the court. "Of course, making sure of his constitutional right of fair trial, his constitutional right of human dignity and his constitutional right of having access to his legal counsel and to be presumed innocent until proven otherwise. "And again I will expect that his constitutional right to bail would also attach. That brings me to the issue of whether he jumped bail or not. The matter of jumping bail or not is still pending before Justice Binta Nyako. "It has not been decided one way or the other that he jumped bail because the court will conduct a hearing before the final decision. He deserves that. "Yes. It’s good. Except the paragraph before last is incomplete. “It’s possible that the Court will finally determine that he didn’t jump bail, looking at the circumstance of why he did not appear for his trial in 2017. "Processes will be filed. Once a suspect is arrested, some processes will ensue and these processes are already before the court. And if there are needs to file fresh processes of course they will be filed and they are constitutional," he added.