The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has spoken about the arrest of its leader, Nnamdi Kanu. The Nigerian government had on Tuesday announced Kanu’s arrest and extradition to Nigeria to continue facing trial. SaharaReporters Media He was subsequently arraigned masked before Binta Nyako, a Judge of the Federal High Court in Abuja. Kanu is facing charges bordering on treasonable felony instituted against him at the court in response to years of campaign for the independent Republic of Biafra through IPOB. He was granted bail in April 2017 for health reasons but skipped bail after flouting some of the conditions given to him by the court. In a broadcast via Radio Biafra, Kanu boasted that the Nigerian court lacks the capacity to try him, describing the court as a Kangaroo court. He said the judge who asked his sureties to produce him should have asked the army why they invaded his residence. See Also






Police
REVEALED: How Inspector-General Of Police, DSS Planned Nnamdi Kanu’s Arrest For Months—Military Sources
0 Comments
4 Hours Ago In a statement obtained by SaharaReporters on Wednesday, Emma Powerful, IPOB’s spokesman, said the group won’t relent in the pursuit of Biafra freedom. He also the Muhammadu Buhari-led government will be held accountable should “anything untoward happen to our leader”. Powerful asked IPOB members to “mobilise” and attend the court hearing on July 26 when Kanu’s trial will continue. The statement read, “We the global movement of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, confirm the abduction of our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu by the Nigerian Government and her security operatives. We shall expose details of his abduction later. “Our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is presently in the custody of the Nigerian Government. This evil crime of kidnapping was masterminded by the Nigerian Government in collaboration with all those that view IPOB and Mazi Nnamdi Kanu as a stumbling block against their bid to hold Biafra in perpetual slavery. “We, therefore, enjoin every IPOB member both at home and in the Diaspora and all Biafrans to remain calm because this is not the end of the road. Our leader's next court appearance is July 26, 2021, and Biafrans should mobilize and attend the court hearing. “IPOB will not relent in the pursuit of Biafra freedom. We have crossed the Rubicon in our struggle for the restoration of Biafran Sovereignty. There is no going back no matter the level of intimidation by our oppressors. “Our leader can never be coerced into abandoning the struggle for Biafra restoration irrespective of the circumstance. At this very challenging moment in the history of our march to freedom, all IPOB family members must stand firm and resolute behind our selfless leader. We stand by him and the God of Heavens in whom we trust and rest our confidence shall not let us down. We shall triumph! “We remind the Nigerian government and her security agencies that our Leader deserves justice and fair hearing. We also want to state unequivocally, that no harm should befall our leader. Should anything untoward happen to him, Nigeria Government will be held accountable for it. “We are watching closely and all our intelligence units, are following up on the developments. The international community should not be quiet over the atrocities of the Nigeria Government against Biafrans. They must rise in defense of justice now.”