A group of Twitter users in Nigeria has taken it upon themselves to empower a woman, Sadiya, whose children are seen in a video eating raw leaves. Sadiya and her seven children were displaced from their community due to the activities of bandits in Mabai, in the Kankara Local Government Area of Katsina State.  A source noted that when Sadiya's business became shattered due to the activities of bandits, she and her seven children resulted in eating raw leaves to suppress their hunger.   Hunger Forces Children To Feed On Grass As Mum Looks On In Katsina Community | Sahara Reporters https://t.co/YK3WsrxQt9 pic.twitter.com/seofWfID8L  The lack of food and poor health care have made the eldest son of Sadiya develop a chronic liver problem, it was learnt. See Also






Poverty
Hunger Forces Children To Feed On Grass As Mum Looks On In Katsina Community 
0 Comments
3 Hours Ago And for over a month, her eight-month-old baby has been battling measles without taking a single medication. However, Sadiya got empowered with a sum of N40, 000 to start a business at the Mabai's internally displaced persons' camp, and different varieties of food items to sustain herself and the family. The urgent support became a reality after a Twitter user, @jaymb000, posted a short video clip of where Sadiya and her children were eating raw leaves on a farm.  For those asking, here are the children eating raw leaves because of hunger with their mother. The last child confronted his mom saying he is tired of eating leaves, he needs real that he was used to eating.. Just a snippet..... @YarKafanchan pic.twitter.com/EDEo4XF6Px  The video, however, drew the attention of some generous individuals to their plight and they came to the assistance of the family. While expressing happiness over the kind gesture, Sadiya joyously danced and appreciated those who contributed toward the kind gesture.  Apart from food stuff, 40k was given to her to start a sustainable small business in Mabai's IDP camp. She danced happily. She extends her warm regard to those who amplified her story and as well, those who contributed money to help her family @NewsWireNGR @Arise_NigerianY pic.twitter.com/eYt8ZrWmmu 