An investigative journalist based in Delta state, Prince Amour Udemude, has said he narrowly escaped an attack by a group of people suspected to be thugs and allegedly loyal to a former minority leader in the House of Representatives, Leo Ogor. Ogor is also the member representing Isoko federal constituency in the National Assembly.  According to Odemude, the thugs, led by one Goddey Igorigo, identified as a former political aide to Ogor, accosted him on Monday at Oleh, headquarters of Isoko South Local Government Area of the state.Udemude had last month raised the alarm over alleged threats to his life by one Jay Ogor, identified as a younger brother of the lawmaker. Igorigo is the Special Assistant (SA) to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Youths and Community Development and also an ally of Jay Ogor. The journalist alleged that on sighting him at the residence of a member representing Isoko South constituency 1 in the state House of Assembly, Kenneth Ogba, who died on Sunday at Oleh, Igorigo mobilised some armed men to the place. According to the correspondent, the men were about 15.Narrating what happened, Udemude said, "I went to the residence of the late lawmaker, Kenneth Ogba in Oleh to cover the condolence visit by the state House of Assembly delegation, led by the Speaker, Sheriff Oborevwori. I saw Goddey Igorigo, identified as a former political aide to the former minority leader in the House of Representatives and member representing Isoko federal constituency in the National Assembly, Leo Ogor."Shortly after, I noticed that Igorigo was making calls and I began to see some bad guys normally used to cause trouble during elections coming in. I saw him pointing at me while addressing those guys he had invited to the premises to attack me. Among the guys, some cult members were also identified and unknowingly to me they had gone to lay ambush for me. After a while, I saw them advancing towards me, some with dangerous weapons."At this point, the attention of the immediate past council chairman of Isoko South and former chairman of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Delta state chapter, Constantine Ikpokpo was drawn to what was going on. He called the leader of the thugs, Igorigo, and warned him against attacking a journalist carrying out his lawful duties."I overheard the former political aide to Ogor saying he, his boss, Leo Ogor and Jay Ogor had scores to settle with me and that he would use his cult members to deal mercilessly with me. He also said for always exposing the Ogors in the media, I must be dealt with and that when he was done with me, I would cease to be a journalist. He said he had the backing of the federal lawmaker and his younger brother, Jay Ogor, who had threatened my life last month."As the immediate past council chairman was admonishing Igorigo and the thugs he brought to attack me, I managed to escape. As I was escaping, one of the thugs was saying they would continue to track me until I am silenced forever. I want the general public to know that should anything happen to me or any member of my family, the federal lawmaker, Leo Ogor, his younger brother, Jay Ogor and his former aide, Igorigo should be held responsible."