The family of Usifo Ataga, Super TV CEO, who was allegedly killed by a 300-level student of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Chidinma Ojukwu, has demanded privacy, asking those who have useful information to reach the police. Chidinma and Ataga had reportedly lodged in a service apartment in the Lekki area of Lagos State and the corpse of the latter was discovered the next day in the room and the former fled, thus raising suspicion of her complicity in his death.  The police said they went after her and tracked her down at her father’s Alagomeji, Yaba residence. Upon her arrest, Chidinma attributed her action to the influence of hard drugs and alcohol. After the interview she granted on Friday, different posts and stories started circulating on social media. The majority of those who commented mocked the Ataga family, especially his wife. In a statement signed by one Dr Isi Ataga, the family demanded privacy, asking those who have useful information to reach the police. They thanked the police for arresting the suspect but said there were many unanswered questions. The statement read, “Here are the facts. A little over a week ago, unknown persons savagely killed our beloved son, Usifo Ataga. With no regard for him, or his family, who love him, they viciously ended his life. “His children will grow up to read unkind, thoughtless words from thousands of people who have joined the lynching party in the press and the blogosphere. Our aging parents must now struggle to pick up the pieces amid a cacophony of misinformation propagated by strangers. “A suspect has been arrested and paraded before the press. We, the Ataga Family, are grateful to the Nigeria Police for pursuing this investigation. However, like you, we have many unanswered questions. Some things don’t add up. “If you have any information, don’t hide behind online posts. Instead, come forward and share it with the Police. “Here’s what we do know. The more you add to the false information in the press and on social media, the harder it is for the Nigeria Police to do their work and fully solve this case. The harder it is for a grieving family to recover from the loss of their beloved son. “We ask, sincerely, that you let us grieve this terrible loss with some privacy. This past week and a half has been the worst period of our lives.”