Nollywood actress, Mrs Toyin Adegbola, popularly known as “Ajoke Asewo to re Mecca” has stated that justice must be served in the sexual assault incident involving Yoruba actor, Olanrewaju James, popularly known as Baba Ijesha and a 14-year-old girl. Adegbola added that only the court of law could deliver judgment to either exonerate or find him guilty of the said offence but justice must prevail either way.  “It is unfortunate that the issue became a public material to be debated. Now that it is in the court of law, I believe justice will be served,” she said. Adegbola was speaking on a radio interview programme in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, where she also recounted how she almost lost a leg after an accident she was involved in sometime last year. She stated that God saved and sustained her as she did not have any underlying medical issues that could have triggered the amputation of her leg. She further added that the ethics and love of the profession which says “the show must continue” made her return to the location the following day even though she spent about four months nursing the injury. Adegbola also used the opportunity to reveal why she was not interested in taking a shot at marriage for a second time after she lost her husband 21 years ago, saying concentration on success and welfare of her children have taken up her time. She was married to Mr Tony Adegbola, a broadcaster who died in 2000. She further stated that her greatest regret is losing her husband early in her marriage as she never bargained for the unexpected development. She said, “Blood runs in my veins, it is a decision I have made for myself at this particular time, I don’t owe anybody any explanation for deciding since 2000 when my husband died not to remarry. I wanted my children to be okay, but for now, I am not ready for it.” Speaking on the controversial ‘Oniduro’ guarantor saga involving popular singer, Tope Alabi, the thespian reaffirmed that God has a diverse way of speaking to human beings and He is human beings’ reliable Guarantor that cannot be disputed. She, however, stated that Tope Alabi should have communicated the message in a better way without being accused of destroying another person’s job or reputation.