The senator representing Delta North senatorial district in the National Assembly, Peter Nwaoboshi, has been suspended by the State Working Committee (SWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), for a period of one month.   Nwaoboshi, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on the Niger Delta Development Commission, (NDDC), was suspended over what the party described as "anti-party" activities.   According to a statement signed by the state publicity secretary of the PDP, Ifeanyi Osuoza, and obtained by SaharaReporters, the action became necessary following Nwaoboshi's recent romance with the the All Progressives Congress (APC) and verbal attacks on Governor Ifeanyi Okowa.   "The State Working Committee (SWC) of the Delta State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), rising from an emergency meeting, has suspended the Senator representing Delta North Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Peter Onyeluka Nwaoboshi, for a period of one month.   "This action has become necessary against the backdrop of the recent romance with an opposition party, verbal recklessness, and unprovoked utterances of Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, particularly against the person of His Excellency, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, the Executive Governor of Delta State, which the PDP State Working Committee views strongly as totally unacceptable, disturbing and unbecoming of a politician and party member of his stature.   "The PDP State Working Committee is in no doubt that the rash, unguarded, confused and heavily noxious, and vitriolic attacks by Senator Nwaoboshi, a serving Senator and a very recent Chairman of our great party, are potentially inimical to the peace and harmony of the party and tantamount to causing discord and disaffection among loyal party members.   "The suspension, therefore, though obligatory, has sadly become imperative and inevitable, especially given the dramatic spontaneity and overzealousness of his verbal attacks, which are totally out of character and may have suspiciously been induced by circumstances which defy immediate rational analysis and comprehension.   "The matter has been referred to the State Disciplinary Committee, in order to afford Senator Nwaoboshi a fair hearing and the opportunity to appear before it and defend himself over his recent utterances and actions against the party and its leadership, in the state.   "We urge all party faithful to remain calm in the face of these provocations and maintain the peace, maturity, and party harmony which have been and will continue to remain the hallmarks of our great party," the party stated.   Our correspondent observed that Nwaoboshi has been having a running battle with the state governor, Okowa over 2023 governorship projections.  It has also be rumoured that the senator has since dumped the PDP for the All Progressives Congress following his recent closeness to the Deputy Senate President and senator representing Delta Central senatorial district of the state, Ovie Omo-Agege, who is said to be nursing a governorship ambition come 2023.