About six young girls and some women have been rescued from a dilapidated building owned by two Nigerians in downtown Joburg. The rescue of the young girls whose ages are between 14 and 21 was carried out on Tuesday after the EPWP (Expanded Public Works Programme) workers in the city, informed the police that the brothel had been housing young women. File photo used to illustrate story. The brothel is allegedly owned by two Nigerians. The Star reported that the young girls who were abducted in the Northern Cape, were found in a Sandton flat where a brothel was being run. It added that all the girls found at the brothel were below the age of 30 and that the police had made to arrests in connection with the abduction. According to The Star, the Department of Community Safety said it was concerned about the sporadic cases of human trafficking that had been reported by the media lately. The Star gathered that "the two popular abduction methods are drinking-spiking and "job interviews" where the girls would be drugged and used for sex. "According to the 2018 United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime report titled Global Report on Trafficking in Persons, it is estimated that children comprise almost a third of all human trafficking victims worldwide, with women and girls comprising 71% of human trafficking victims. "The department's spokesperson, Ofentse Morwane, said the provincial government was working hard to crack on brothels and lolly lounges, where women were kept as sex slaves. "There were efforts to go to taxi ranks and media platforms to warn people of the presence of human trafficking."The department was also cracking down on hijacked buildings in the Johannesburg CBD which were also part of illegal underworld activities. “These efforts are critical in ensuring we deal decisively with brothels mushrooming in Gauteng communities. Sandton, like other places in Gauteng, has, in recent times, been affected by the scourge of human trafficking but the police are doing everything in their power to ensure this scourge is eradicated,” Morwane said.