The Nigerian Army will stop at nothing until they arrest a top lawyer of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Ifeanyi Ejiofor, whose three domestic workers are still with the military, sources have informed SaharaReporters.  Military sources revealed that Ejiofor is believed to be in possession of “highly classified documents” about IPOB and the Biafra agitation, especially related to the financing of the groups by external forces. Ifeanyi Ejiofor It is also believed that Ejiofor is linked to top politicians in the South-East region, who are discreet members of IPOB and support the secessionist agenda of the IPOB.  One of them said, “In September 2017, the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, declared IPOB as a terrorist organisation. It was discovered that IPOB has formed a Biafra Secret Service; the Biafra National Guard; and the details of all these groups and their different sources of funding are well known to the lawyer, Ejiofor.  “The lawyer is believed to have highly classified information in his possession about the whereabouts of the IPOB top chiefs, the ESN camps, and the external sources of funding which keep the IPOB thriving. The military wants to access all these from him.”  Another source said, “He is close to Nnamdi Kanu (IPOB leader) and they are believed to be in close contact. Getting him arrested or taken out is like touching the heart of IPOB. His domestic workers may likely not be released until they use the workers to get him.”  SaharaReporters had on June 6 reported that Nigerian soldiers invaded the residence of Ejiofor, and later shot dead his Personal Assistant, identified as Samuel Uzo Okoro, also known as Biggy. See Also






Human Rights
How I Survived Army, Police Invasion Of My Residence When They Killed My Aide — IPOB Lawyer, Ejiofor
0 Comments
1 Week Ago "The invading government security operatives also abducted Barr Ejiofor’s elder brother, Joel Ejiofor, and the lawyer’s two domestic workers named Ugochukwu and Chikezie and bundled them away. The lawyer’s elder brother, Joel was later pushed out of one of the Hilux vans at Ojoto en route to Awka, Anambra State and he has since returned alive and unhurt.  "The invading soldiers and other security operatives were also discovered to have been mobilised from Abuja and Anambra states, including soldiers of the 302 Artillery Regiment, Onitsha and police, DSS and Civil Defence operatives from Anambra State and their Abuja counterparts," a group, International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law, familiar with the invasion had explained.  Two days later, Ejiofor in a release on his Facebook page, narrated how the attack was carried out.  “Very unfortunately, the well-planned premeditated attack on my ancestral home resulted in the brutal murder of my long-standing personal aide, (Samuel Okoro aka Gentle Biggy), who was shot and consequently injected with lethal substance before being set ablaze in my car, which the demons in uniforms made away with on this black Sunday.  “I had waited for 24 hours for those that invaded my home to tell the world their true mission to my peaceful residential home in Umunakwa Ifite, Oraifite, Ekwusigo LGA of Anambra State, but nothing is forthcoming. Hence, mine will be coming in stages as I had assured.”  Ejiofor added that he had been the general counsel to IPOB and Nnamdi Kanu since 2015, and the proscription of IPOB was still a subject of the appeal.  He continued, “The questions begging for answers which I want the invaders to answer are, Who sent them to my ancestral home because they carefully monitored me until I moved in on that fateful day? I spent virtually a week in Abuja before returning home, why didn't they arrest me in Abuja where I live, or even invite me to appear before them for questioning if I was being investigated for committing any offence?  “From what I gathered, the sinister purpose is clear, the directive is clear, arrest him alive or dead and burn him alive. I will give further details on this subsequently.”