Residents of Adeoye, Akinrimisi and Ajaye in Ondo Town, Ondo State are presently living in fear as they have observed Fulani herdsmen in their numbers invading their areas with weapons and setting up hideouts for an imminent attack. SaharaReporters learnt that the Fulani herdsmen attacked one of the areas on Monday night up till Tuesday morning, in a “test-run” as residents lamented that the police and the soldiers deployed in their area only extort money from motorists and turn their backs on the attackers. File Photo: Herdsmen. A top source and community leader told SaharaReporters that the Fulani attackers are presently in Lipakala Forest around Sabo area in Ondo town – an area known to security agencies but they have refused to deploy their personnel there. “We are calling the attention of security agents to some Fulani herdsmen hiding at Lipakala Forest at Sabo, Adeoye, Akinrimisi up till Ajaye in Ondo town. The people living in these areas don’t sleep at night. Please, let Nigerians treat this as a matter that requires urgency. We have informed the security agencies but they are only interested in extorting money from motorists plying the roads. “Let the whole world hear before Fulani will attack Ondo town and the police and the military would claim they were not given intelligence. We are crying out now. Go and flush out Fulani gunmen hiding in Lipakala Forest in Sabo.” “Two days ago, they did a test-run attack. They forced many residents to flee to neighbouring villages. We could not sleep,” another source added. Ondo State has also had its fair share of herdsmen onslaughts in the recent past. SaharaReporters had in February, for example, reported how Fulani herdsmen attacked some farmers at Ijugbere in the Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State, killing three of them. The Senior Special Assistant to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on Agriculture, Akin Olotu, had confirmed the killing to SaharaReporters. “Yes, it’s true, three people were killed, the place is becoming like Zamfara. Those accusing the governor of ordering illegal occupants of the forest to vacate the place, I think they should be charged as accomplices,” Olotu told SaharaReporters. “It obvious these bandits are ready for war. That’s why the governor said if you are a cattle rearer, let us know you, disclose your identity. Let us know where you come from, let us know who own your cattle. It’s so sad.”