The People's Alternative Political Movement (PAPM) has urged lawyers in each state of the federation to defend protesters who may be arrested on June 12, 2021. The June 12 Democracy Day nationwide protest is presently gathering momentum as Nigerians from various walks of life have expressed support to mobilise others to the streets to seek an end to bad governance in the country.  Forces behind the new movement (PAPM) are drawn from trade unions, civil society, students, farmers and peasants from across the 36 states. The promoters said the new movement will take Nigeria from dishonest, corrupt and reactionary politicians currently taking Nigeria to arguably its worst period in history, with inflation and unemployment at unprecedented levels. June 12 Protest has been trending major social media platforms with many organisations, groups and human rights activists calling on Nigerians to join the mass movement in the country. The President Muhammadu Buhari-led regime has a penchant for arresting and torturing peaceful protesters, denying them of their rights. According to various publicity posters, the June 12 Protest will make 14 critical demands which are: abolish 1999 constitution, end terrorism, end banditry, Isa Pantami must go (Minister of Communications and Digital Economy whose past comments exposed as a sympathiser for terrorists), free all detained activists, end insecurity, justice for all EndSARS victims, Free Kogi2 (Two anti-President Muhammadu Buhari protesters – Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka – who are being Illegally detained in Kogi State), Buhari Must Go, revert electricity tariffs, end ASUP (Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics) strike, revert fuel price, revert party deregistration, and free Nicholas Mbah. Human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, still recuperating after being shot by a trigger-happy policewoman during a peaceful protest at the Unity Fountain in Abuja last week, also lent his voice on Twitter to the June 12 protests. “Good morning, oppressed citizens! We urge you to please join us nationwide/worldwide to engage in massive street action on June 12, 2021. #June12Protest #BuhariMustGo #Revolutionnow,” he said on Tuesday. “The Nigerian State has declared war against her citizens and we must rise in millions with every resistance available. #June12Protest is an historical duty to save what is left of this country,” another Nigerian said. With the recent ban of Twitter by the Nigerian government, it is expected that many more youths would feel motivated to join the protest to demand respect for the rights of Nigerians to air their views. Nigeria’s June 12 Democracy Day is a public holiday set aside to commemorate the restoration of democracy in the country. May 29 was initially the democracy day in Nigeria, until it was changed in 2018 by the Federal Government. This is special in Nigeria’s history and is used to commemorate the democratic election of Chief MKO Abiola on June 12, 1993, in what has been adjudged to be Nigeria's freest and fairest elections. It was, however, cancelled by the Ibrahim Babangida military junta, and Abiola was thrown into prison, leading ultimately to his untimely death in 1998.