The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has threatened to resume its suspended strike in Kaduna State. NLC President, Ayuba Wabba on Tuesday disclosed this during a press conference after an emergency National Executive Council meeting of the congress in Abuja. Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai The Labour Congress on Wednesday, May 19 suspended its strike in the state after intervention by the Nigerian government through the Ministry of Labour and Employment. According to Wabba, state councils and affiliate unions have been directed to mobilise for the latest action. The Labour Union has been at loggerheads with the Nasir El-Rufai-led Kaduna State government after it embarked on mass sacking of workers. Wabba on Tuesday accused El-Rufai of disrespecting the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) brokered between the NLC and the state government by the Nigerian Government. "After exhausting all avenues, including writing letters to President Muhammadu Buhari and Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, the Union has decided to resume the strike," he said. In its recent letter to the President, NLC said, “Your Excellency, Mr. President, the National Executive Council (NEC) of the NLC on May 25, 2021 resolved that in case the Kaduna State Government remain adamant and recalcitrant or continues to pursue the path of war, threat and punitive actions against workers and their interests, that it had given the National Administrative Council (NAC) the power to re-activate the suspended industrial action in Kaduna State and also call for the withdrawal of services of all workers in Nigeria without any further notice.” The Nigerian Government's intervention came three days after the NLC started a protest following the disengagement of over seven thousand civil servants in the state and local governments' services. The strike had paralysed critical sectors of the economy in the state and El-Rufai in reaction declared Wabba and labour other leaders wanted for alleged economic sabotage and attacks on public infrastructure in the state.