Youths on Saturday defied a directive from the security agencies to stop the nationwide June 12 protests in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The youths, who staged a peaceful protest at the Mokola roundabout, told security agencies that they were ready to die for the betterment of Nigeria. Twitter/LegendaryOFR They carried various placards with inscriptions such as "Buhari must go!" "End impunity in Nigeria!" "Food is costly", "We must get angry...Revolution now!" among others. SaharaReporters observed that some groups of youths protested from the Agodi Government House to the front of the University of Ibadan campus while some stationed themselves at the Mokola roundabout.  SaharaReporters observed that many youths, who are human rights activists, insisted that the protest must continue unabated. Speaking with Sahara Reporters, Abiodun Bamigboye, who is the coordinator of the Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) and Comrade Emiola Solomon, who led the African Action Congress (AAC) in Oyo State in their separate interviews, said the protest was organised because of the numerous challenges facing the country. Bamigboye said, "We are out to express our dissatisfaction with the current situation of our country. We are protesting against insecurity, poverty, impunity and unemployment in the land. We are calling on all Nigerians to support this struggle because we are continuing the protest tomorrow. This is the beginning of the protest. We must not allow Nigeria to die." In his remarks, Emiola Solomon, who said they were not agitating for secession but a working Nigeria where youth would gain recognition, insisted that President Buhari must go. He said, "We are here today to protest against impunity and insecurity in Nigeria. We are calling on all Nigerians to come out and protest against Buhari. He is the only problem of this country. Buhari must go! This protest must continue until Buhari leaves. We are ready to die if security wants to kill us. The police officer who shot Omoyele Sowore must be brought to book. She must be prosecuted. All the activists who are held incomunicado by Buhari must be released. They have the right to express themselves."