At least six persons were injured by gunshots from John Ebatame and Moses Okoyomon at Ama community in Esan-South East Local Government Area of Edo State.  The two alleged men are hunters armed with a double-barrelled gun.  The incident occurred on Friday at a burial of one Martina Rabi after Ebatame had reportedly followed the corpse from Ubiaja in Esan-South East to Ama community.  After reaching Ama Community, the two men allegedly started shooting into the air which led to the damage of electrical wires in the area.  This made some youths confront Ebatame but after an argument came up, he shot at them injuring six persons.  The names of the six persons are; Matthew Enebor, Sule Kadiri, Christian Okpoke, Momodu Ambrose, Ibadan Okhere, and one other unidentified person.  The injured persons are currently receiving treatments at the Irrua Specialists Teaching Hospital.  Meanwhile, Edo State Police spokesperson, Kontongs Bello, confirmed in a statement that the Ebatame and his accomplice Okoyomon had been arrested by operatives of the command.  “On Friday, June 25, 2021, around 7pm, the Edo State Police Command, through the Divisional Police Officer, Agbede Division, CSP Iredia Ogiata, received information that there was an ongoing shooting at Ama community. On the receipt of the information, the DPO swiftly mobilised police operatives from the division to the scene of the incident.  “Investigation further revealed that the two followed the corpse from Ubiaja in the Esan South-East Local Government Area to the Ama community. Ebatame is said to be a hunter in Ubiaja, Esan South East LGA, and he followed the corpse from Ubiaja to the area, where he fired gunshots in the air, which resulted in the damage of the community electrical wires.  “On arrival, preliminary investigation revealed that one John Ebatame and Moses Okoyomon were said to have used a double-barrelled gun to shoot at six persons in the community during the burial of one Martina Rabi.  “Investigation further revealed that the two followed the corpse from Ubiaja in the Esan South-East Local Government Area to the Ama community. Ebatame is said to be a hunter in Ubiaja, Esan South East LGA, and he followed the corpse from Ubiaja to the area, where he fired gunshots in the air, which resulted in the damage of the community’s electrical wires.  “The youth of Ama community, on noticing that he had destroyed their electricity wires, confronted him. In the cause of an argument, he shot at them and injured six persons namely: Matthew Enebor, Sule Kadiri, Christian Okpoke, Momodu Ambrose, Ibadan Okhere, and one other unidentified person. The injured persons are currently receiving treatment at the Irrua Specialists’ Teaching Hospital.  “The Commissioner of Police Edo State, Phillip Ogbadu, warned that no one had the power to threaten other people’s lives with arms and ammunition. He enjoined the good people of Ama community not to take the law into their hands as an investigation into the incident has since commenced,” he said.