The Biafra Nations League (BNL) has commended Twitter for deleting the comment of President Muhammadu Buhari, in which he appeared to have threatened genocide against Biafra agitators. Buhari had in a series of tweets on Tuesday through his Twitter handle, @MBuhari tweeted, “Many of those misbehaving today are too young to be aware of the destruction and loss of lives that occurred during the Nigerian Civil War. Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand.”  Following complaints by Nigerians, Twitter deleted the tweet, stating “This tweet violated the Twitter rules.” See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Twitter Deletes Buhari’s ‘Genocidal Tweet’ After Condemnation By Nigerians
0 Comments
4 Hours Ago National Leader of BNL, Princewill Chimezie Richard in a statement on Wednesday expressed anger over the President's outburst. Richard noted that the President has not been threatening the North over bandits and Boko Haram activities in such a way. He said the youths of the former Eastern region did not witness the war but have the courage to fight another war if it breaks out. “It is true we didn't witness the war, but we have the mind to fight if another war breaks out. It wasn't the wish of our fathers to fight, the war was forced on them by Yakubu Gowon, and so if Buhari wants to force us to fight another war, we will fight,” the statement read. The BNL Leader reminded the President that this is not 1967 when they succeeded in dividing the ethnic groups and sold seed of discord among the tribes in the East. He said the BNL, being a multi ethnic movement, will do everything possible to defend the unity of Biafra. The group urged Twitter to ban the President on the platform like it did to Donald Trump. Trump's Twitter account was in January "permanently suspended due to the risk of further incitement of violence," Twitter had said. Twitter said the decision was made "after close review of recent Tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account". Trump was locked out of his account for 12 hours after he called the people who stormed the US Capitol "patriots". Hundreds of his supporters entered the complex as the US Congress attempted to certify Joe Biden's victory in the presidential election. The ensuing violence led to the deaths of four civilians and a police officer. Twitter warned then that it would ban Trump "permanently" if he breached the platform's rules again. Trump posted two tweets further that the company cited as the final straws.