Lagos State Governor's aide, Joe Igbokwe has expressed excitement over the arrest of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, by the Nigerian Government. He also revealed that he and his family were threatened by Kanu before his arrest, adding that the IPOB leader has many questions to answer before the court. Joe Igbokwe Igbokwe, a former spokesman for the All Progressives Congress in Lagos State made this known on Tuesday in a statement titled ‘Thank God I survived Nnamdi Kanu’s madness.' Igbokwe said Kanu wanted him dead because he disagreed with the secessionist movement of IPOB. The statement partly read, “Nnamdi asked his boys to behead me anywhere they see me. They did not spare my children as they extended the same fate to them. “He also did not spare the names of every other person who spoke against his dreamland, Biafra." Igbokwe also explained that his family lived in panic and his children were threatened. “My family lived in fear. When they could not get me, they resorted to calling my phones to pour invectives. They threatened my children at the drop of a hat. “On my Facebook page the ‘Children of Hate’ Nnamdi Kanu trained and nurtured for years in abuse and hate, bigotry, primordial sentiments, and ethnic preoccupation will come in their thousands to rain abuses with all kinds of unprintable words. “They cannot even read what you wrote to understand the trajectory. I endured it all. “When they noticed that I was not bothered, they resorted to propaganda and heckling. “First, they said I was jogging in Lagos and collapsed and died. Secondly, they said I was beaten up in Lagos by IPOB members. Just last week, they came up with the same story that I was beaten up again. “In quick succession, they said my house in Nnewi has been burnt down. All these were triggered to weaken my resolve but they do not know me. When I believe in something, I hardly give up. “Now what is my offence? I do not want Biafra and I gave 20 reasons why it cannot stand in the 21st Century. “I said that Igbo have not spoken and Nnamdi is a baby to dictate the fate of 40 million Igbo in Nigeria. Nnamdi never liked this. “At the time, I asked for a debate and he said I was too small to face him. Nnamdi carried on with his suicide mission and today, I cannot tell the number of young Igbo men that have been wasted in the last one year.” Kanu is in the custody of the Department of State Service, as his case was adjourned to July 26 and 27. Reacting to the case, Igbokwe said, “Nnamdi will tell us a lot in the courts in the days ahead when the chips are down. Obviously, he has a lot to say.”