Residents of Abeokuta, Ogun State scampered for safety on Monday when students of two public secondary schools shot guns during a clash. It was gathered that the clash occurred between students of Baptist Boys High School and Ilugun High School, Federal Housing Estate, in Elega, Abeokuta, the state capital.  Students of the former invaded the latter school to avenge the death of two of their colleagues killed during an unauthorised inter-schools gambling competition, Daily Post reports. It was alleged that students of Baptist Boys High School had invaded the Ilugun High School with dangerous weapons, including guns, cutlasses, broken bottles and assorted charms to avenge the deaths of their colleagues, allegedly stabbed to death a few weeks ago The incidents paralysed commercial activities and vehicular movements in some parts of the state capital. It was gathered that it took the intervention of the police to restore normalcy to the affected areas. Shop owners, who had earlier opened for businesses were said to have hurriedly closed down and scampered for safety, while vehicles and commuters also deserted the area for hours. It was learnt that the students shot sporadically in different directions and chanted anti-management songs to warn the principals and teachers of the schools to steer clear. One of the shop owners in the area, who managed to return after security operatives had taken over, explained that the students of the two schools were last week, involved in gambling, in which those of the BBHS won massively at the expense of their colleagues in Ilugun. “The gambling, however, degenerated into a conflict, wherein two BBHS students were stabbed with broken bottles. “One of the BBHS students stabbed, died last Friday, while the second one died yesterday (Sunday). But the students of BBHS were not happy about the incident and that was why they came out in violent protest against students of Ilugun High School today,” the shop owner said. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi confirmed the incident, adding that the command had deployed security operatives to the area to restore sanity.