Bandits have struck again on the Minna-Kontagora Expressway in Niger State, killing an account officer, Abdullahi Isah, who worked with the Niger State Development Company. SaharaReporters learnt that Isah was gunned down by the bandits somewhere along the road on Friday, while he was attending an occasion.  One of Isah’s friends, Awwal Ahmad Paddy, also took to Facebook, to confirm the killing, saying he was still with the deceased on Thursday. Paddy wrote, “He called me yesterday and asked me where I was, and I told him I was at the State Universal Basic Education Board office, he later came and picked me up and we spent almost three hours discussing some issues that were personal to me and him. “When we finished, he dropped me at the junction and told me: ‘please, we should meet on Friday in Kontagora’. Just 30 minutes before he entered Kontagora today, he called me and told me that he was about to enter Kontagora not as we earlier scheduled due to some emergency. “But suddenly, I just received a call again after some few minutes that Abdullahi is no more. A best friend of mine which I will never forget, may your gentle soul continue to rest in peace. We will forever miss you, friend.” Niger is one of the states most affected by bandits’ attacks. As insecurity worsens nationwide due to increased banditry, Niger State between January 2020 and February 2021 lost 301 persons to bandits and terrorists’ attacks, according to a report by the SB Morgen Intelligence. The African-focused research firm had said the deaths occurred during 73 various incidents which were documented. “Niger State, Nigeria’s largest by land area is just one of four states (the others being Benue, Nasarawa and Plateau) in the vast North-Central region hardest hit by attacks by organised armed groups and militias with affiliation to international terror networks, most notably al-Qaeda and the Islamic State. “Between January 2020 and February 2021, at least 301 people were killed in 73 various violent incidents in the state. Perception of the government’s neutrality in the conflict has not helped as the government’s attempt to disarm parties to the conflict have been seen as partial to the herders, and have thus backfired, frustrating the entire disarmament campaign,” the report partly read.