A four-year-old boy, Amos Musa, has been with the Boko Haram insurgents since December 24, 2020, with the family and the Chibok community in Borno State pleading with the Nigerian government to rescue him. SaharaReporters learnt that Musa was abducted on Christmas Eve by the terrorists from Pemi village in Chibok Local Government Area of the state – the same time the insurgents took away Pastor Bulus Yikura who was recently freed.  Chibok is where Boko Haram abducted hundreds of schoolgirls in 2014 – some of whom have yet to be released till date. It was gathered that the four-year-old boy was abducted from his parent’s house on December 24, and the terrorists had yet to release him, causing the family daily torment. A family source told SaharaReporters that the family would like President Muhammadu Buhari, the legislators, and the security agencies to rescue Musa the same way Pastor Bulus’s release was secured on the day his one-week deadline to live expired. He said, “Despite the release of Pastor Bulus, we still have a four-year-old boy with the terrorists – Amos Musa. He was abducted on the same day the pastor was whisked away. His family is presently in disarray as they are hoping desperately that their son could be reunited with them. We want the government to assist us in rescuing this boy. He is our future.” In a viral video in the last week of February, the pastor who was abducted by the Boko Haram insurgents had shown up in a video, crying out to President Buhari to save him as he had been given one week to live. The terrorists in the video had started a countdown over Yikura’s life, who they promised to kill if their demands were not met. The terrorists had similarly killed three nurses and a worker with the Action Against Hunger, a humanitarian organisation last year, following similar threats and to the condemnation of both national and international human rights organisations. The Abubakar Shekau-led faction of the terror group Boko Haram had abducted Yikura and Musa from Pemi village, Chibok, where they have been making life unbearable for residents. “I’m calling on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Governor of Borno to help me because I have been given a one-week ultimatum from today. If you want me alive, I beg you in your capacity as President, the governor, and our local government chairman to save me from this suffering. “Today is the last day I will have the opportunity to call on you in your capacity as my parents and relatives in the country. Anyone who has the intention should help and save me. Please release me from this pain,” he had pleaded. In the first week of March, Bulus was freed and afterward fled with his wife and three children to another town in another North-East state – the specifics of which have been withheld for security reasons. “Bulus came back to his wife and three children on Friday. It was a pleasant reunion. The whole church community welcomed him. He started moving all his property the same day, and he left Chibok. He has left Borno State. “There was a big thanksgiving at his church in Pemi Village in Chibok. But in these circumstances, we advised him to relocate immediately. Chibok is still very vulnerable and the entire Borno State, as we speak. So, he is off to start a new life in another state,” a family source had said.