First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has been silent on the allegations of unethical conduct against its Managing Director, Adam Nuru. Nuru was in December 2020 enmeshed in a marriage scandal with Moyo, one of the bank’s former female staff members. Ladunliadinews Tunde Thomas, the husband of the woman in contention, had died on December 16 reportedly from depression and cardiac arrest. Thomas reportedly died of depression after he realised that his two children were allegedly fathered by the bank MD. However, the bank in a statement on January 1, 2021 said it was aware of the allegations making the rounds against Nuru. FCMB Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Diran Olojo, said the bank's board of directors had already commenced a review into the matter, adding that its findings would be disclosed in due course. “We are aware of several stories circulating across several media platforms about our bank’s Managing Director, Adam Nuru; a former employee, Mrs Moyo Thomas, and her deceased husband, Mr Tunde Thomas,” the statement said. “While this is a personal matter, the tragedy of the death of Mr Tunde Thomas and the allegations of unethical conduct require the bank’s board to conduct a review of what transpired, any violations of our code of ethics and the adequacy of this code of ethics. "This is already under way. During the period of the review, the managing director has volunteered to proceed on leave. This will guarantee the sanctity of the review process.” And indeed, on Wednesday, January 6, FCMB issued a press release stating that Mrs. Yemisi Edun would be acting as the Managing Director of the bank in the interim period while Mr Adam Nuru was on leave. The bank stated that it was in line with normal corporate practices. The statement signed by ‘the management’ and titled ‘Yemisi Edun to act as Managing Director, while Adam Nuru proceeds on leave’, stressed that Edun had not been appointed as the substantive Managing Director. “In line with normal corporate practice, Mrs Yemisi Edun is Acting as the Managing Director of FCMB in the interim period while Mr Adam Nuru is on leave. She has not been appointed as the substantive Managing Director. Thank you.” The bank has however remained silent more than two months after making the statement. When contacted by SaharaReporters to ask about why the bank has been silent on the investigation, FCMB’s spokesperson, Olojo claimed the bank was still reviewing the allegations of unethical conduct against Nuru. “We will announce the requisite updates when we are through. That process is still ongoing,” he said.  Do you have a story for us? Please use this FORM.  