Justice Bello Kawu of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court sitting in Kubwa has granted the motion/application of all #EndSARS celebrities represented by Deji Adeyanju, to dismiss the criminal charge against them.  The court on Tuesday granted an application to hear the substantive motion to strike/dismiss the criminal charge filed by Kenechukwu Okeke against the 50 celebrities at FCT, Wuse Zone 6 Magistrate Court. SaharaReporters Media The lead counsel representing all the celebrities, Ihensekhien Samuel Jnr, urged the court that considering the incompetent, frivolous, and opposing applications filed by Kenechukwu Okeke, the court should discountenance Okeke's application in its entirety, as the same application is full of mere rhetoric, idioms and devoid of legality.  The court in ruling on the applicant's 1st application granted the motion to regularise and bring in the #EndSARS celebrities' substantive application to dismiss Okeke's criminal charge.  The court also considered the frivolous application of Okeke to dismiss the suit of #EndSARS celebrities and strike out the court orders of stay of proceedings on Okeke's criminal charge, delivered by the court on January 13, 2021.  By the submissions of Samuel, counsel for the celebrities, Okeke's application is now vague and has become academic given the court ruling today granting the applicants/#EndSARS celebrities motion to regularise.  The court, after considering all submissions of the celebrities, adjourned the matter to June 30, 2021, for ruling, as Okeke again hurriedly left the court after the proceedings.  Okeke had filed the criminal suit against the activists for their roles in the protests at Wuse Zone 6 Magistrates’ Court, Abuja before a Chief Magistrate II, Omolola Tolulope Akindele.  The lawyer alleged that during the protest, his belongings were destroyed and that the defendants who promoted the #EndSARS protests must be brought to justice.  Those listed as defendants include Sam Adeyemi, senior pastor of Daystar Christian Centre; Kanu Nwankwo, former Nigerian international footballer; Innocent Idibia, Nigerian singer and songwriter popularly known as 2face; Adeleke, Nigerian Afropop singer, better known as Davido.   Others listed in the suit include Aisha Yesufu, Kiki Mordi, Peter Okoye, Paul Okoye, Deji Adeyanju, Tiwa Savage, Folarin Falana (Falz), Feyikemi Abudu, and Debo Adebayo.   The Nigerian Bar Association had earlier said that Okeke was fake and not on the list of directory of lawyers in Nigeria.  SaharaReporters learnt that the NBA reported Okeke via an official letter to the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Kubwa.  At a recent hearing of the matter, the case was called up and there were introductions from the celebrities, others, and applicant, Deji Adeyanju’s lead counsel, Samuel Ihensekhien and Okeke, who appeared as the first defendant, and as a counsel for himself.  The NBA Abuja Capital Chairman, Chukwuemeka Clement, also appeared in this case as amicus curea (a friend of the court).  At the commencement of the case, Samuel Ihensekhien informed the court that given the avalanche of court process filed by all parties in the case, there was a need for a clear date to be taken by the honourable court to hear all pending applications.  This application by the applicant’s counsel was acceded to by the court, and he further informed the court that by an official letter filed by the NBA the chairman of Abuja capital that the purported first defendant in the case, Okeke, who had been filing different court processes all over Nigeria, was not a lawyer.  The NBA said Okeke was not called to the bar and the NBA would further take legal and prosecutorial steps against Okeke in the case.  Reacting to the above, the NBA Capital Bar Chairman, Chukwuemeka, and a representative of the NBA aligned with the applicant’s counsel’s submission and informed the court of an official NBA letter evidencing all the submissions above and further documentary evidence and authentication from the NBA website that Okeke was not a lawyer.