A woman, Amina Danzarga, has been reportedly kidnapped, only two days before her wedding at Koki Quarters in Kano, the Kano State capital. SaharaReporters learnt that the Danzarga family members are presently apprehensive as the whereabouts of the bride-to-be are still unknown five days after.  The woman, who was also student of Federal College of Education, Kano, was last seen by her family members when she left her family house at Koki for school on Friday evening. She later visited her friend in Dorayi Quarters, where she dropped her examination card. According to Daily Trust, the family members feel she was kidnapped on her way back from Dorayi. Amina’s uncle, Gwani Yahuza, explained that apart from two text messages earlier received from her telephone line, the family had not received any call from the girl or her abductors. “Hours after she was declared missing, we received two different text messages: the first one was a threat not to call the girl’s number again and the second one was sent to her younger brother requesting to put her in their prayers as the other lady who was allegedly kidnapped together had been killed. “We have not received any message again as her number is not going through. We are only praying to Allah Almighty to reveal anyone that has a hand in this kidnapping,” he said. The family also debunked the rumour making the rounds that their daughter might have orchestrated the act because she was not interested in the marriage. Hajiya Hajara Anas, an aunt of the abducted lady, told Daily Trust that the girl really loves her fiancé, as she was deeply involved in the wedding arrangements. “She really loves her fiancé. Throughout last week, she was in my house for Gyaran Jikin (traditional body beatification). I took her to my neighbour who does Gyaran Jiki in Kofar Mazugal. “You know a girl who doesn’t want the marriage or does not love the fiancé would not do it for marriage’s sake,” she added. The fiancé of the victim, Umar Hassan, who is still in shock, also dismissed the rumours that his fiancée went into hiding or fled so as not to get married to him.