The Coordinator of Ndi-Igbo in Germany, Oge Ozofor says he is not aware of the plan by the German government to deport Nigerians living illegally in Germany as circulated in the media space. He told SaharaReporters on Wednesday while responding to the massive deportation plans announced by the Network for Critical Migration Consciousness (NfCMC).  A statement by the NFCMC noted that at a February meeting with the Nigerian Ambassador in Berlin, Yusuf Tugger, he informed the NGC president-led delegation of his engagement with the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 to address the situation of deportation and the risk of the coronavirus pandemic. He said, "Please be aware that arrest is ongoing based on provisions of the German Foreigners Law which legitimates keeping so-called tolerated persons in deportation custody to guarantee their availability for a planned deportation enforcement flight. "We would categorically like to draw the attention of persons who are at the moment participating in the German so-called Voluntary Returns Program – a project of the racist 'Perspective Heimat Program' meant to coerce asylum seekers to volunteer for their self-deportation. "Experiences have proven that such persons could be used to fill up spaces in scheduled chartered deportation flights since their passports.” Reacting, Ozofor said, “Honestly, I don't know about the deportation. Most Nigerians here, and indeed, more than ninety-five per cent of Nigerians in the diaspora are staying in their host country legally, contributing to the host's economy, her healthcare system and technology. “No member of Ndi-Igbo Germany is residing /staying here illegally. “We encourage Nigerians who intend to migrate to do it legally, and for the right reasons not as a repudiation of one's country of birth. “There is a reason for creation and existence, everybody owes a duty to justify his/her existence by contributing to unity, development and progress of any community one finds himself or herself in.”