The three children of Pastor Bulus Yakuru, whom the Boko Haram terrorists last Wednesday gave one-week ultimatum to live, have stopped their schooling, as the whole family grapples with emotional and financial trauma. SaharaReporters learnt that Bulus’ wife has also fallen sick, as the family, which stays in the Pemi area of Chibok, Borno State, is distressed by Bulus’ abduction since December 24, 2020 – the eve of Christmas.  SaharaReporters had on Sunday reported that the Chibok community started contributing money for ransom and planned to meet Boko Haram factional leader, Abubakar Shekau, to secure the life of the pastor. It had also been reported that elders in the Chibok community were presently calling for help to get to Shekau, after having raised the money to ensure that Yakuru was not killed by the insurgents. SaharaReporters learnt on Monday that Bulus’ three children had quit school and his wife was also sick as a result of the abduction and threats. “The family had five children but two have died. The wife has been lying sick. The three children have stopped school since the incident occurred. They could not resume with their colleagues this year. The family is in emotional and financial crisis. “This is why we are calling on the Boko Haram to come and collect this money and spare the life of Bulus. His family needs him and needs a lot of attention,” an elder in the community told SaharaReporters. Although he did not disclose the amount raised so far by the community to rescue Bulus, he assured that the money was ready and they wanted the Boko Haram to collect the ransom and free Bulus. The pastor had cried out last Wednesday in a video sent by the Boko Haram to President Muhammadu Buhari, the Borno State government, and the Christian Association of Nigeria from the terrorists’ den, begging that he had been given a one-week ultimatum to live. Yakuru had said he was in pain and would like to be reunited with his family members, church and relatives. The Boko Haram struck Pemi village in Borno, only about 20 kilometres from Chibok, on December 24, 2020, during which the pastor was taken away. “Today is the last day I will have the opportunity to call on you in your capacity as my parents and relatives in the country. Anyone who has the intention should help and save me. Please release me from this pain,” Yakuru had stated in the video released by Boko Haram last Wednesday.