The paramount ruler of Iwo, Osun State, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi has said he is not in support of those calling for the disintegration of Nigeria.  He said this at a rally organised on Saturday to canvass for one Nigeria in reaction to what Sunday Igboho said that any Yoruba traditional ruler not in support of Oduduwa Republic should do a video recording and identify himself or herself as an enemy.  Akanbi further buttressed his point by issuing a press statement through his Press Secretary, Alli Ibraheem, saying those in the vanguard of the breaking up of Nigeria should stop such a movement.  "Nigeria is indivisible, unbreakable, inseparable and impenetrable nation and the Hope of the Black race and its weaknesses must be properly and technically managed.  "Any attempt to break up Nigeria unavoidably result in the separation of the Black race worldwide. No, Nigeria can never break.  "I will admonish the break-up agitators to channel their energy towards productive ventures such as calling for quality governance and devolution of power as done in some advanced countries.  "The leaders at the helm of affairs should be tasked to give dividends of democracy and quality lives to citizens. Promoting secession is like fuelling war that will consume the Black race. As a responsible father of the nation, I cannot be part of such a move."  The monarch warned Nigerians living abroad to watch their comments on social media so as to not create chaos while assuring that the country will be great again.  "The Nigerians in Diaspora should exercise caution in contributing to issues on social media. Most of their comments are fuelling division and heightening the tension. You all planned to resign home. Of what justification is destroying what our forefathers laboured for and settling the house we planned to resign to on fire? The failure of past leaders sent you abroad.  "The government is tasked to domesticate dividends of democracy through policies that cut across all classes and social strata. The agitators should dust their Voter cards, take part in elections and promote competent candidates. Nigeria is too delicate to beat the drum of division synonymous with war.  "Nigeria will bounce back. We will survive the trying time and be an envy of great nations. We have what it takes. What we need can be done by competent leaders. Let's harmonise interest to demand quality governance."