Adewale Giwa, the Senior pastor of Awaiting The Second Coming Of Christ Ministry has asked Nigerian government to stop the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination exercise. According to Giwa, what Nigerians need is Jesus, not the vaccine.  He added that the vaccine is worse than a poison and asked Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to intervene to stop the vaccination. He said, "Let me tell the president and the vice (president) that Nigerians need Jesus Christ not a vaccine. "I am sure you won’t try to collect food from destiny killers because if you do, you will die before your appointed time. "Over the years, these people have shown us that they are our enemies and do not want our progress. Do you know how many people are dying of hunger on a daily basis? "A woman rushed to the church a few days ago, crying and asking for just N2,000 to buy foodstuffs for her children. "What baffles me was that she said her 5-year-old child had earlier died of malnutrition and wouldn’t want the same scenario (to) repeat itself. "Hunger has killed a lot of people in Nigeria compared to foreign disease such as coronavirus. For how long will they continue to deceive themselves? "A citizen of a country is ready to die for his country when he knows that the system is working well. On the contrary, the citizens of Nigeria keep crying for good governance. "The Covid-19 vaccine is worse than a poison; we must not allow ourselves to be fooled. You can’t display malaria injections on live television to deceive the people. "If they don’t want us to die of coronavirus by introducing a vaccine as claimed, they would have crushed criminal Fulani herdsmen and Boko Haram killing our people without bringing them to justice. "Between coronavirus and hunger, which one would you tackle first? You are sick in the head if you allow yourself to be deceived. Please, run to Jesus Christ." Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari and Osinbajo were inoculated against the COVID-19 publicly by their respective personal physicians on Saturday in a bid to convince Nigerians to take the vaccine. However, barely 24 hours after the Nigeria’s leaders got the jabs, Austria which adopted the same batch of AstraZeneca’s COVID-19 vaccine, suspended it after one person died and another developed illness after taking the shots.