The National Youth Service Corps is concluding plans to administer the COVID-19 vaccine, AstraZeneca, to thousands of 2021 Batch A corps members who are presently undergoing their orientation exercise across the 37 camps nationwide. SaharaReporters learnt that the NYSC authorities had met with the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 in Abuja for approval and would also meet with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, a department of the Federal Ministry of Health for the modalities.  Speaking with SaharaReporters, the NYSC Director-General, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, confirmed the plan to administer the COVID-19 vaccines to corps members. Already, NYSC while giving out the pre-orientation briefing to the Batch A, Stream One corps members asked them to register for the COVID-19 test on its portal and bring the slips to camp for their scheduled tests. The DG had in his speech on Wednesday to the corps members emphasised that the scheme would not compromise the COVID-19 health regulations and precautions across its orientation camps, while admonishing corps members to adhere to all laid down protocols. On Thursday in a message to SaharaReporters on the vaccination of corps members in camps, the DG replied, “Absolutely. I have an appointment with the Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Agency.  I have mentioned same to the Chairman of the PTF too.” On February 18, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control approved the Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine for use in Nigeria. On March 6, President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, were vaccinated against COVID-19 at the Aso Rock Villa. Buhari and Osinbajo were vaccinated by their personal physicians at the Presidential Villa. NAFDAC had earlier on Friday cleared 3.924 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine, which arrived in Nigeria last Tuesday, for usage. Meanwhile, a former Senator, Dino Melaye, had yesterday criticised the Nigerian government for importing the AstraZeneca COVID-19 Vaccine, saying it was the least potent of the four vaccines approved by the World Health Organisation. The former senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District in the 8th Senate said the government did not have the interest of its citizens at heart, thus opting for the least potent of the available COVID-19 vaccines. Melaye had argued that Nigerian people deserved the best, and that the people at the helm of affairs should provide the best for them.