Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State on September 23, 2019, with his wife, Aisha Ummi, stormed Kaduna Capital School, to enrol his then six-year-old boy, Abubakar El-Rufai, in the school in an effort to keep a promise he made in 2017.  El-Rufai had said he would enrol his son at the Kaduna Capital School in order to lead by example and also show his commitment to fixing the educational sector in the state.  Sharing photos from when he went to register his son in the school, El-Rufai via the official Kaduna governor Twitter handle, had tweeted, “Reforming the Education sector in Kaduna is a continuing struggle against decades of neglect.” See Also






Education
El-Rufai Enrols Son In Kaduna Public School 
0 Comments
1 Year Ago  Reforming the Education sector in Kaduna is a continuing struggle against decades of neglect. But the @elrufai govt has a strong commitment to fix public education and raise the standard of public schools so that private education will become only a luxury. pic.twitter.com/mkKPKAjZZI  It would be recalled that El-Rufai had in 2017 said, “I will by personal example ensure that my son that will be six years of age in 2019 will be enrolled in a public school in Kaduna State, by God’s grace.”  El-Rufai, while speaking as a guest of Freedom Radio’s Hausa phone-in programme: ”Barka da War haka” in 2017, had said he would revamp public schools in Kaduna state and promised to enrol his child in a public school when he turned six years.  “The move is part of reforms to revamp public schools in the state to make them more competitive. We are determined to fix public education and raise their standards so that private education will become only a luxury.  “As we make progress, we will require our senior officials to enrol their children in public schools. And I will by personal example ensure that my son that will be six years of age in 2019 will be enrolled in a public school in Kaduna State, by God’s grace,” he had said.  “Briefing newsmen shortly after he enrolled the child, El-Rufa’i explained that it was a commitment that had been fulfilled.  “I made that commitment because I believe that it is only when all political leaders have their children in public schools that we will pay due attention to quality of public education. See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: How El-Rufai Secretly Withdraws Son From Public School In Kaduna As Kidnapping, Banditry Cases Increase
0 Comments
2 Hours Ago “I went to a public school like this. In fact, the school I went to is not as good as this one, but here I am, because of the quality teaching I got.  “My intention is to ensure that all our public schools offer quality education, and so we are encouraging all our senior public servants to send their children to public schools.  “Once the public schools are improved to a point they are nearly as good or even better than private schools, no one will waste his money taking his child to private school,” the governor had said.