The Emir of Anka, Alhaji Muhammed Attahiru Ahmad has said there are more than 30,000 bandits with dangerous weapons in Zamfara State. Ahmad, who is also the Chairman of Zamfara State Council of Chiefs, said this on Tuesday when Nigerian security chiefs were on a courtesy visit to Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, in Gusau, the state capital.  The monarch stated that the traditional rulers in the state had confidence in the new service chiefs to curb insecurity in the country. He called on them to harmonise their efforts and utilise their experience to fix the security lapses in the state and the entire North-West. “We have hope in you, we rely on you, we pray for Allah’s guidance in your duties. We have no option but to go on dialogue initiated by his Excellency Governor Bello Matawalle. There are more than 30,000 bandits in the state,” Ahmad said. The service chiefs –Chief of Defence Staff, General lucky Leo Irabor, Lt General Ibrahim Attahiru, Chief of Army Staff, Admiral A. Gambo, Chief of Naval and Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao – said they were in the state to see troops and know the condition of things there. Speaking, Irabor said the service chiefs were aware of the insecurity situation in the state. “We are in the state to see our troops that are on the ground considering the issue of insecurity of the state. It’s essential for us to come and know what the issues are. We know Zamfara has been a peaceful state, but now bedevilled with insecurity, we are ready for those that don’t want peace, we would go after them,” Irabor said. He urged traditional rulers to continue to educate their subjects that there is nothing better than peace. He, therefore, promised that time had come to change the horrible development of insecurity in the state. While reacting, Governor Bello Matawalle said he inherited the insecurity in the state, which according to him, started eight years ago. “When I assumed duty as governor, I called everyone to come and join hands with me and recure the state from the insecurity bedevilling the state," he said. “In the forest, you would see a 12-year-old carrying AK-47, people should not take the issue of insecurity lightly, we need more troops across the North-West states. I advise the army to identify the camps and fight them. “We have legal miners with legal documents and those that are running illegally. We have to come together and find a lasting solution to end the banditry activities across our zone.”