There has been tension at Richland Gardens Estate, Shapati town in the Ibeju Lekki Local Government Area of Lagos State, along the Lekki-Epe Expressway, after policemen from the state task force and land grabbers invaded the estate and started demolishing houses. SaharaReporters learnt that the policemen had laid siege to the estate since March 8 and locked up a family in their compound for four days. Richland Gardens Estate It was gathered that the task force policemen, who came with a black maria, and land grabbers reportedly fired gunshots in the estate to scare away the residents. They also brought bulldozers with which they commenced the demolition. Speaking for the estate, human rights activist and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, said the estate, which is owned by Otunba Steve Ajose, has been a subject of judgment of the High Court of Lagos State delivered by Justice M.O. Olokooba on November 22, 2016. He added that a warrant of possession was issued by the court in 2019. He appealed to the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, and the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to “forthwith direct the policemen and operatives of the task force to vacate the estate and thereafter offer adequate compensation for the buildings demolished illegally". It was learnt that the estate had further threatened a court action, should the invasion and demolition of their buildings continue. Adegboruwa, in the petition he raised, said, “The events that led to the petition were that in the early morning of March 8, 2021, armed policemen led hoodlums and thugs with dangerous weapons and invaded the estate. They started shooting sporadically into the air to scare people. They came with caterpillars and commenced the demolition of the perimeter fence of the estate. “They then proceeded to demolish existing building foundations, daring anyone to challenge them. It later transpired that operatives of the Lagos State Task Force on land grabbers also came with their Black Maria van and other vehicles. They blocked the entrance gate of a female resident, cut off her key and replaced it with another padlock and kept her and her family locked inside the building for four days. The policemen are still in forceful occupation of the estate. “Under and by virtue of section 43 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, citizens are entitled to acquire and own land without the threat of forceful acquisition by the government. Without any court order, no one is allowed to demolish the building of any citizen. In this case, there is a subsisting court judgment that has validated the ownership of Otunba Steve Ajose over the land. The option is to file an appeal against such judgment if the government has any issue with it, and not to invade the estate with force. “I therefore appeal to the Inspector-General of Police and the Governor of Lagos State to forthwith direct the policemen and operatives of the Task Force to vacate the estate and thereafter offer adequate compensation for the buildings demolished illegally.”