The Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal, Justice Danladi Umar, has stated that Biafran miscreants who were ready for trouble, damaged his official car and injured him on the finger on the allegation that he assaulted a security worker at the plaza in the Wuse area of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The CCT Chairman, in a statement by Ibraheem Al-Hassan, the Head, Press and Public Relations of the CCT, stated that the plaza had been his usual place for 18 years, and he never assaulted the security guard.  Umar denied that he assaulted the security guard, saying he and his younger brother were the only ones at the plaza and that the policemen seen with him in a viral video were from the area, and not his security detail. SaharaReporters had on Monday exposed how the CCT Chairman was caught on camera physically assaulting the guard at Banex plaza in Wuse. In the video exclusively obtained by SaharaReporters, Umar was seen speaking angrily, scolding and shouting at the yet-to-be identified man. The CCT chairman also launched a barrage of attacks on the young man and violently kicked him before he was restrained by the crowd, including police officers with him.  He was then forced into his vehicle by the police officers. Information made available from an eyewitness and the brutalised security guard was that all the assaulted young man did was to ask Umar to park his car properly at the plaza, only for the CCT chairman to slap him, pull him down and inflict injuries on him. The action however didn’t go well with people who felt Umar cheated the security guard. They suddenly became aggressive and started stoning the vehicles in the CCT chairman’s convoy, smashing their windscreens and windows. But in a release, the CCT chairman exonerated himself, saying Biafran miscreants targeted him, injured his finger and damaged his car. The release partly reads, “Our attention was drawn on a report from some online publication with a video clip suggesting the Chairman assaulted a security guard at Banex Plaza. To start with, the said plaza has been his usual place of visits for the past 18 years for shopping and repairs of his phones, and in all these periods there has never been any time he had any turmoil with anybody.



See Also






Human Rights
BREAKING: Code of Conduct Tribunal Chairman, Justice Umar Publicly Assaults, Brutalises Security Guard At Abuja Plaza
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “Unfortunately, Monday’s altercations started over a parking lot, which the Chairman met vacant and it was directly opposite a shop he want (sic) to make a purchase and to fixed (sic) his phone, when the young security guard sighted him, he ordered that the Chairman should not pack (sic) his car in that particular empty space, but when the Chairman asked why, the security guard couldn’t convince the chairman. “Although the Chairman didn’t identify himself, because to him it was needless and it was a place he visited often, the boy was rude in his approach and threatened to deal with the Chairman if he refused to leave the scene. “Again, if the Chairman had gone there to cause trouble or intimidate someone, he would have gone there in his full official paraphernalia, but he went there alone with his younger brother. “The policemen in the video were not the Chairman’s police team, they were policemen operating around the plaza.



See Also






Legal
Nigerians Demand Sacking, Prosecution Of CCT Chairman, Justice Umar, For Publicly Assaulting Security Guard At Abuja Plaza
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “The Maitama police station personnel also came as the few policemen in the complex were apparently overwhelmed by the mobs, consisting of Biafran boys throwing matches and shape object to his car, which led to deep cut and dislocation in one of his fingers, causing damage to his car, and smashing his windscreen. “At a point he attempted to leave the scene, these same miscreants, Biafran boys, ordered for (sic) the closure of the gate thereby assaulting him before the arrival of the police team from Maitama police station.”