Apostle Paul Okikijesu of the Christ Apostolic Miracle Ministry, Lagos State, has warned President Muhammadu Buhari against being pressurised to arrest and kill about four Nigerian agitators, noting that shedding their blood would lead to Buhari’s removal. The cleric stated on Friday that the Buhari government should not attempt to touch Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, more commonly called, Sunday Igboho, ex-Niger Delta leader, Government Ekpemupolo, otherwise known as Tompolo, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, and former Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi. Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari
REUTERS/SHANNON STAPLETON According to Daily Post, Apostle Okikijesu stated this in a statement on Friday saying killing any of these men would make Buhari lose his government and his Vice, Prof Yemi Osinbajo would take over. The cleric said, “The President should believe in the voices of the religious advisers more than the voices of those who are coercing or pushing him. He should believe in their voices more than his own wisdom. “Thus says the Lord: What I am saying is that the President must not allow people to coerce or push him to shed the blood of these four men: namely Sunday Adeyemo (Igboho), Muhammad Sanusi, Nnamdi Kanu and Tompolo. If this happens there will be panic and the country will be shaken. “Thus says the Lord: The blood of these four men is not for sacrifice, and it is not to be used to appease his spirit for a long life, or to achieve his goals. Inform the President that he must not permit or condone the blood of these four men to be spilled. “He must not allow people to use their might/power to shed the blood of these four men. If the blood of these men is shed; then the government will be taken away from him and it will be given to his deputy. “That means, his vice should be making preparation, because I the Lord will crown him with a glorious crown, to govern the country. If this does not happen, I am not God anymore. “Thus says the Lord: If the President quickly silences people who are agitating concerning these four men, and performs the amendments that I the Lord is expecting from him; then he will govern for a brief period of time; else his deputy will assume the control of the country.”