The Coordinator of the Oodua Peoples Congress in Oyo State, Mr Rotimi Olumo, has described a former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, as a 'lie merchant and an expert in misinformation.' Olumo said this in a statement on Wednesday following a claim by Fani-Kayode that the Fulani warlord, Abdullah Iskilu-Wakili, captured by OPC members on Sunday, was not the real Wakili tormenting the people of Ibarapaland in Oyo State. Olumo said Fani-Kayode's claim was misinformation taken too far.  The statement read, "Fani- Kayode is one of the politicians that thrive on telling lies. He has a reputation for using his social media page to foment trouble and cause disunity in Yorubaland. He had once said that the Yoruba language was Anago. How can you take such a person too seriously? "I remember former President Olusegun Obasanjo once said that Fani-Kayode could do anything for money and survival. "He lives in Abuja, romancing with the North, yet he was the first to refute the claim that the kidnapper was not Wakili. Where did he get his information? "With his untenable claim, I know, and I am sure that the former minister is doing the bid of his paymasters, who are majorly from the North. He is the undisputed spokesperson for any politician that is ready to feather his nest.



See Also






Insecurity
Real Iskilu Wakili At Large, Not The Old Man In Police Custody, Fani-Kayode Alleges
0 Comments
1 Day Ago "He should be warned to stop drumming the beat of disunity in Yorubaland. Fani-Kayode was one of the few people who congratulated our leader, the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, the operation's success of the OPC. The following day, he twisted the story refuting the claim that the man apprehended wasn't Wakili." Narrating his experience during the raid to capture Wakili, Olumo stated that the operation that led to the arrest of Wakili and three other persons lasted over five hours, with a fierce battle ensuing between the OPC, the joint security operatives and the suspects. However, in the end, he said Wakili was apprehended, but his son, Abu, escaped using their cows as a cover. Fani-Kayode had tweeted on Tuesday that the Wakili in police custody was not the actual one killing and tormenting the people of Ibarapa.