One of the students of the Bayero University, Kano arrested by officials of the state Hisbah Board for ‘immoral acts’ has narrated his ordeal in the hands of the Islamic policemen. SaharaReporters had on Thursday reported how operatives of Hisbah invaded some off-campus hostels of the university in Danbare area, arresting students of the opposite sex found in the same room. File photo used to illustrate story. It was learnt that the Islamic policemen broke into the students’ rooms and took them to their office. A source said the operation by the state religious body sparked off tension in the neighborhood as other students kept vigil all through the night out of fear of the unknown. Speaking to SaharaReporters on Monday, one of the students said they were assaulted and brutalised by Hisbah officials. He said each of them were forced to pay N20,000 before they were released. He said, “About 20 of us were arrested. None of us was caught in any sexual act. The Hisbah guys just invaded our apartment and started picking up people, including me. No explanation, whether the lady or guy is your relative or not, they didn’t want to hear. “Some of us were really beaten. It was an experience I would never wish on anyone. They later told us to get across to our family members and any other person we could call to come and bail us out. They firstly requested for N30,000 but later told them to go and bring N20,000.



See Also






Islam
Kano Hisbah Demands N20, 000 Each To Release Male, Female Varsity Students Found In Same Room 
0 Comments
3 Days Ago “After collecting N20,000, they then shaved our hair without our consents.” Despite condemnations by Nigerians, Hisbah group has continued its push for an Islamic agenda in the North. The agency established to enforce Sharia law in some states in the region recently banned stylish haircuts, sagging of trousers, playing of music at social events by disk jockeys and tricycle riders from adorning their vehicles with pictures considered to be obscene and against the tenets of Islam. This was in addition to other unusual directives reeled out by the Islamic police. Hisbah recently made headlines for shaving stylish haircuts of young men in Kano and arresting people for improper dressing. A barber and his customers were recently arrested in the state for allegedly giving haircuts said to be offence to Islam to the affected customers. They are also notorious for destroying truckloads of alcoholic drinks.