Nigerians on social media have lambasted Justice Umar Danladi, Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) for physically assaulting a security guard at Banex Plaza in Wuse, Abuja. They also called for his immediate dismissal and prosecution by the Nigerian government. Danladi Umar, the Chairman of the tribunal SaharaReporters had reported how Umar, who is currently being prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for corruption, launched a barrage of attacks on a young man and violently kicked him before he was restrained by the crowd, including police officers attached to him.  BREAKING: Code of Conduct Tribunal Chairman, Justice Umar Publicly Assaults, Brutalises Security Guard At Abuja Plaza | Sahara ReportersThe CCT chairman also launched a barrage of attacks on the young man and violently kicked him.READ MORE: https://t.co/bHT7VmMJzg pic.twitter.com/lG9FCAwVNU  Information made available by an eyewitness and the brutalised security guard was to that all the assaulted young man did was to ask Umar to park his car properly at the plaza, only for the CCT chairman to slap him, pull him down and inflict injuries on him. "The CCT chairman was on the verge of further hitting the young security guard with a dangerous object taken from his car, when passersby and tenants at Banex Plaza, intervened and stopped him from further assaulting and violently attacking the young security guard," the eyewitness said.  The action however didn’t go down well with people around, who felt Umar cheated the security guard. They suddenly became aggressive and started stoning the vehicles in the CCT chairman’s convoy, smashing their windscreens and windows. Taking to social media, some Nigerians have asked the Nigerian government to sack and prosecute Umar. A Twitter user, @ose_anenih wrote, “The CCT Chairman must resign or be sacked. The NJC must sanction him for conduct unbecoming of a judge.‪ @PoliceNG‬ must arrest and prosecute him for assault. But this is Buhari’s Nigeria so nothing will happen.” Another user, @Aaronsheir said, “The CCT Chairman must resign or be sacked. State and federal persecutors are supposed to jump on this and make a case in a working society but in this set of individuals are to lazy to do their job, all they hope for is cashing out with their office (sic). Shameful conduct." @HabilaAlfred said, “This was certainly not his first time of assaulting someone like that! And to even imagine that such character has been the CCT Chairman all the while leaves a lot to be desired.” JIUMaiyaki tweeted, “It's unfair and inhumane, justice has to be done. Are we in a state of anarchy where jungle justice is practised, where the fit ones suppress the unfit ones, where powerful ones subjugate the less powerful ones?To some extent,some of our leaders are not humane.” Reacting, @nkem22 said, “Impunity won't stop in this country; I was there today when he came back for the third time, just to arrest a security guard....the shame I feel on his behalf ehhn? Like I have to arrest a security guard and I must do that with a full truck or army. May God help us.” @Princeshaibu10 wrote, “This is assault and intimidation punishable under the penal code law. Unfortunately, impunity will find its way out! A man that is supposed to express good conduct is the same man expressing bad conduct. Like (Ibrahim) Magu like Umar! @UgochukwuIheji1 wrote, “This mugu should be charged to court asap. He has outrightly displayed good reasons for public officers to take drug tests. His attitude is demeaning of the office he holds..... E be brain cracking.”