A 200-level student in the History and Diplomacy department at the Federal University Otuoke, Bayelsa State, Arikekpar Lucky, has committed suicide. According to reports, the 27-year-old student, popularly known as Don Zednas, who was suffering from depression, hanged himself with a rope tied to a ceiling fan in the early hours of Monday, after locking the doors and windows.  The deceased, a one-time aspirant of the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Students Representative, Central Zone, hailed from Otuakeme, Ogbia Local Government Area of the state. Some sources in the university community, who spoke with Igbere TV, said the student took the drastic step because he had been battling with depression as members of his family had tagged him an academic and life failure. Arikekpar was said to have left a suicide note expressing frustrations with the pressure from his relatives, saying they left him with no option but to kill himself for peace to reign. A source said it was not the first time the deceased had attempted to take his life, adding that he had made such attempts twice last year. "His family is always complaining that he spends too much effort, time and money on Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) politics rather than to face his studies,” the source said. The students union leader, Kojo Debekeme, also stated that the student was depressed and could not cope with some family issues again. A family member, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the young man had been buried "according to the tradition of the Ogbia people when such tragic incidents occur." Meanwhile, friends and colleagues have taken to Facebook to mourn the deceased. Meshack N. Sintei wrote on Facebook, "I hate the fact that I'm sharing this bad news. #GONE_TOO_SOON. My dear brother and friend, Don Zednas Snr, when I heard of your sudden demise, it came to me as a rude shock. They told me that you committed suicide. I couldn't help but cry. “You're a vibrant young man full with energy and determination. You and I went to the IYC National Convention at Sagbama together and we talked and talked and talked about how beautiful the future is for us. Today, you're no more. “TO THE LIVINGI know depression is real, but suicide is never an option. Don't envy anyone, don't be in a competition with anyone because there's no competition in destiny. Heartbreaks can be survived, financial challenges are surmountable, marital challenges are part of life, no woman is barren, you too will have your children, you too will have your husband and wife. No matter the challenges, there's always an opportunity for growth. I repeat, forget what you see on social media! Most of them are fake, misleading and deceptive! “Finally, I'll leave you all with one of my favourite quotes, 'don't compare your progress with that of others, we all have our own time to travel our distance'. Rest on my brother until we meet again.#Depression_is_real, but #suicide_is_Not_an_option.” Another friend of the deceased, Azibanigha Festus Joseph, wrote, “Gone too soon and say no to suicide. “The National Leadership of Abureni Liberation Force Worldwide joined the family and Federal University Otuoke to mourn Comrade Lucky Arekipar a.k.a Don Zednas Snr who committed suicide at Otuoke Ogbia LGA Bayelsa State. “Until his death, Don Zednas snr was a student of Federal University Otuoke and former student Rep aspirant of the revered Ijaw Youth Council IYC Central Zone and currently a parliamentarian representing Ogbia Constituency 1 in the Bayelsa Youth Parliament. “Don, who was the first to win the Ebubu (Onunu) Competition at Kolo organised by the Director Media Ogbia LGA, Comr Ogbomade Johnson Itutumeni and chaired by me on June 2020 has left his dream unfulfilled. “We the Abureni people see suicide as a crime against God and man and such bodies are subjected to serious traditional punishment and in most cases, the family concern bears the cost of appeasing the gods. We, therefore, condemn the act of suicide in its entirety and urge people to share their problems with friends and relatives. In the same vein, advise friends and relatives to observe their love ones whenever you witness any mood change in your friend or brother. “Finally, while we cannot query the circumstances surrounding your death but we pray that your soul is accepted by God Almighty in Jesus name. Amen. Rest in peace, my comrade. Comr (Pharm). Festus Azibanigha Joseph. National President Abureni Liberation Force Worldwide.”