The Akwa Ibom State Police Command has confirmed that three of their officers were killed, while four are missing in Essien Udim Local Government Area of the state during a violent clash between security operatives and some hoodlums. SaharaReporters had on Tuesday reported how gunmen killed a Chief Superintendent of Police, Benedict Okoh Ajide and other police officers in the council area.  It was learnt that the gunmen also killed some military officers while many others were injured.  BREAKING: Gunmen Kill Nigerian Soldiers, Policemen, Burn Operational Vehicles In Akwa Ibom | Sahara Reporters The gunmen also killed a yet-to-be ascertained number of military officers while many others were injured. @PoliceNG @HQNigerianArmy READ MORE: https://t.co/mRpMgwtLXh pic.twitter.com/C6Cjmsg6AU  “Unknown gunmen attacked some police officers and soldiers today. Their Hilux vans were also set ablaze right,” a source had told SaharaReporters. Reacting in a statement on Wednesday, police spokesperson in Akwa Ibom, Odiko MacDon, said the cause of the attack was unknown. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Gunmen Kill Nigerian Soldiers, Policemen, Burn Operational Vehicles In Akwa Ibom
0 Comments
1 Day Ago He said that the police team was in the local government area to maintain peace when it came under attack. “The Commissioner of Police, Amiengheme Andrew, is deeply saddened by the unprovoked attack on security personnel who were out maintaining the peace yesterday, 30th March, 2021 which led to the demise of CSP Ben Ajide who was the Commander of the Command’s Quick Intervention Unit and two others, while four others are missing. “Whereas the remote and immediate causes of these unprovoked attacks are unknown, a discreet investigation is on the way to unravel the same and seek a lasting solution,” he said. The police commissioner, according to the statement, condoled with the family of the slain officers and assured that those behind the attack would be brought to justice. He appealed to the public to volunteer useful information that would lead to the arrest of those responsible for the attack.