Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, on Saturday, said politicians in the land have a lot to learn from the church in the interest of the country. Osinbajo spoke at the inauguration and commencement of duty service of the 8th President of Christ Apostolic Church Worldwide, Pastor Samuel Oladele, held at All Saints Chapel, C.A.C. General Secretariat, Bashorun, Ibadan.  The VP, who was represented on the occasion by the Aso Rock Chaplain, Rev.Seyi Malomo, lauded the Christ Apostolic Church for the smooth process of the inauguration of the 8th President. He said, "I want to commend the Christ Apostolic Church for the smooth process, which has brought the inauguration of the president because this is the way it should be. Certainly, there is a lot for politicians to learn from the church on conducting elections without rancour. "My prayer for the new president is that his tenure will record greater success in Jesus' name. I also want to thank the outgoing president for his infallible service to CAC for the years of glorious and faithful service. You have managed the affairs of CAC with integrity, maturity, and fatherly understanding. "May Almighty God preserve you for many more years in strength and good health to enjoy your fruit of labour. The anointing of God in this church has made it such that the humblest of men, even the least educated, can bring the good news of delivering the oppressed from unseen spirits and even raising the dead. Apostle Ayo Babalola remains a testament to this fact." In his address on the occasion, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State urged the country's leadership to make it a priority to end division and unhealthy rivalry in the land. In a report by Punch, the governor said Nigeria equally needs to reconcile with the rest of the world, adding, "The Chairman of the South-West Governors picked something from the citation of the 8th President of the CAC Worldwide, and he mentioned that his (new president's) priority is to end the crisis of division that has plagued the church for 30 years. "I am reading the same thing from a different angle. Our country is at the crossroads right now: the issues of insecurity, banditry, ethnic clashes everywhere. And we know that the leadership of the church or political leaders did not drop from heaven as we are also from this society. "So, if we are at a crossroads and the new president has said his priority is to end the crisis of division, I think as a nation and people, we, also, from this day, should make it a priority to end the crisis of division in Nigeria. "The division is not just about the local branches here. The church has branches all over the world. We also need to make it a priority that Nigeria needs to reconcile with the rest of the world and I know it will happen." He, however, urged politicians to learn from the transition model of the Christ Apostolic Church, which, he said, is rancour-free and encourages peaceful handing over of power. He said he would make the difference in Oyo State where, according to him, no governor has handed over to the successor since the start of the Fourth Republic in 1999.