The Redeemed Christian Church of God has said the church is still praying concerning the release of church members abducted by bandits last Friday. Speaking with SaharaReporters on Wednesday, RCCG's Head of Media and Public Relations, Pastor Olaitan Olubiyi, said the incident is a security issue and has been left in the hands of the government.  SaharaReporters had reported how eight members of the RCCG, Region 30, Trinity Sanctuary, Kaduna, were attacked near Doka along the Kachia-Kafanchan Road, on their way to a programme. The hoodlums were said to have taken them in their operational vehicle and abandoned the church’s shuttle on the road. Channels TV had quoted the Public Relations Officer of the church in the Kaduna province, Alao Joseph, as saying the kidnappers had demanded N50 million ransom. However, speaking on Wednesday as to how far the church had gone towards securing the release of the abducted members, Olubuyi said, “I don't know how far the negotiations have gone but as a security issue, we are leaving it for security people. "As far as the church is concerned, the role we can play, for now, is that we are praying and we know that everything will be sorted out. “The issue of the depth and nature of the negotiation, the government will handle that; we do not know. As far as we are concerned, we are trusting God and we know that as soon as possible, they will get to us.” Meanwhile, the governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai had said he will not negotiate with bandits or kidnappers. Recall that gunmen attacked the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization, Afaka, in the Igabi local government area of Kaduna state and abducted 39 students who are yet to be released. El-Rufai, on March 16, said his job as governor is to protect the people and prosecute those who committed offences. The governor said: “We will not engage with bandits or kidnappers. Private citizens like clerics and clergymen can do so in their individual capacities, to preach to them and ask them to repent. We also want them to repent but it is not our job to ask them to do so.’’ In response to this Olubiyi said, “I would not be able to speak for the governor or to respond on whatever the governor decides to do or not to do, but whatever progress, I will let you know.”