The paramount ruler in Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi has said the next president will come from the South-West region and that it is the reason why he will not support the agitation for Yoruba sovereign nation. Oluwo said this on Monday while talking to the Yoruba community in Sokoto State, adding, “The Yoruba Presidency coming up is the future of our children and it is non-negotiable. We should all fight for this great gesture coming our way.”  The country has been facing a number of difficult challenges recently and the region to produce the next President in 2023 is one of the main subjects of public discourse in the country. The monarch tasked the stakeholders in the region to form an alliance to ensure that a Yoruba succeeds President Muhammadu Buhari in the next presidential election. Akanbi had earlier organised a rally on Saturday in solidarity for one Nigeria, daring a freedom fighter, Sunday Igboho, who had proclaimed that any traditional ruler not in support of Oduduwa Republic should indicate in a video recording. While addressing Yoruba people in Sokoto, Oluwo said, “Scheming won't work. Enemies within won't succeed. 2023 project is a Yoruba assignment. The traditional rulers and Yoruba stakeholders have fundamental roles to play. The bottom line is to see Yoruba conducting the affairs of Nigeria in 2023 after the incumbent. “Yoruba Obas, stakeholders and all of us should rally round any Yoruba son or daughter. Calling for the division of Nigeria is synonymous with working against our near bright future. Let's harmonise interest in canvassing support for a Yoruba as the number one citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I pray we understand the politics behind breaking up agitators. I'm a Nigerian. I spend her currency, naira. Nigeria can't be divided when it's our turn to preside. The future of Yorubas under Nigeria is bright and can't be cut prematurely. “The next fortune won’t elude us. Is it now that it’s the turn of the Yoruba to become president that we are clamouring for freedom?”