A Kwara-based Civil Society Organization, Elites Network for Sustainable Development (ENetSuD), has filed a suit against the state government over the appointment of the Transition Implementation Committee (TIC) for the local government councils in the state. The group disclosed this in a statement signed by its Chairman on Media and Publicity Committee, Saeed Tijjani, on Tuesday. Kwara State governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq ENetSuD said it filed the suit through its Director of Legal Services, Lukman Raji, against the state governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazak and Attorney General of the State, Kamaldeen Ajibade. The organisation, renowned for inspiring #FollowKwaraMoney, questioned the authority of the state governor to suspend or dissolve democratically elected local government councils. It also asked the court to establish if the Transition Implementation Committees (TIC) of Local Governments in the state were recognised by any law. ENetSuD also asked the court to direct the state governor to recover and refund to the state treasury, all the funds, remunerations, and benefits already paid to members of the said Transitional Implementation Committees, stressing that the Kwara state governor had no power to dissolve the democratically-elected councils of the sixteen local governments of Kwara State, The statement read partly, “ENetSuD wants the court to provide answers to the following questions: Whether or not by virtue of section 7(1) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), the Kwara State Governor can suspend/dissolve democratically elected local government councils. “Whether or not section 29 (1) to (5) of the Kwara State Local Government Law 2005 is in conflict with section 7(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) and thus null, void and of no effect whatsoever to the extent that it empowered Governor of Kwara State to dissolve the democratically-elected local government councils. “Whether or not by virtue of sections 1(1), 7(1), and 15 (5) of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), Kwara State Government can appoint Transition Implementation Committees (TIC) of Local Governments in Kwara State. “Whether or not Transition Implementation Committees (TIC) of Local Governments in Kwara State is recognised by any law. “ENetSuD is seeking the following reliefs from the Court: 1. A declaration that section 29 (1) to (5) of the Kwara State Local Government Law 2005 is in conflict with section 7(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) and thus null, void and of no effect whatsoever to the extent that it empowered Governor of Kwara State to dissolve the democratically-elected local government councils and replace them with Transitional Implementation Committees/Caretaker or whatsoever name called appointed by the Governor or any other body. “A declaration that by virtue of the combined effect of section 7 of the Constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) and the provisions of sections 18 and 28 of the Kwara State Local Government Law 2005, the Governor of Kwara State (i.e the 2nd Respondent) had no power to dissolve the democratically-elected councils of the sixteen local governments of Kwara State. “A declaration that 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as amended) does not recognise the purported Transitional Implementation Committee/Caretaker or any other name whatsoever called in Kwara State and the creation or appointment of such is therefore unconstitutional. “A declaration that the respondents lack vires to release or use Kwara State resources to fund purported Transitional Implementation Committee/ Caretaker or any other name whatsoever called in view of sections 1(1), 7(1), and 15 (5) of the constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended). “An order setting aside the purported appointment of Transitional Implementation Committee by the Kwara State Government of 5th March, 2021 or any other dates whatsoever. “An order directing the 2nd respondent (Kwara State Governor) to recover/refund back to the state treasury all fund, remunerations, and benefits already paid to members of the said Transitional Implementation Committees. “An order directing the 2nd respondent (Kwara State Governor) to conduct local government election in the whole local government area of Kwara State with immediate effect in accordance with section 7 (1) of the Constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended).”