The General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman, during a sermon, explained that the controversial Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020 which the Nigerian government signed would not stand, because churches in the country are not funded like in the United States and Britain. Apostle Suleman stated this in his church sermon in August 2020 when the CAMA first became a controversy in the country, noting that if the government did not fund churches like developed countries, it had no right to regulate its leadership. Apostle Suleman Suleman said, “The CAMA law is diabolic and evil intended act, saying they can change the board of trustees and no court can upturn it. Why will I respect an act that does not respect the law? Somebody would say, but okay, in America, in London (UK), the government regulates charity organisations. That’s true. “I would tell you why because we have eight churches in London and over 30 in America. So I should tell you what operates there. In America and London, churches are like charity organisations and they collect grants from the government. The government will fund them. “In this last COVID-19 pandemic, I know churches which got $80,000 and $100,000 support from the government. So, when you support charity organisations, you have a right to regulate them. Is it our government we will apply for N100 million and the government will give us? We are not anti-government? But if you don’t give us, you cannot regulate our management. “If the government does not fund you, they cannot regulate you. So the CAMA law is not right and it will not stand. So the government should let sleeping dogs lie.” In August 2020, the Christian Association of Nigeria had stated that it would consider a legal option if the Nigerian government fails to amend the controversial CAMA 2020 it recently signed. President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had on August 7, 2020, signed CAMA into law, with the government receiving knocks and kudos since then over some controversial provisions of the law. CAN noted that it would take all options available to it to get CAMA amended, just as the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria argued that CAMA would not work in Nigeria, despite being copied from the United Kingdom and United States of America.