The former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, has described Yoruba freedom fighter and Pan-Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo (Sunday Igboho), as the most powerful man in South-West Nigeria. He said Igboho has inspired millions and restored the honour and self-respect of the Yoruba nation.  Fani-Kayode, who shared his opinion via his Twitter handle, also mentioned that Igboho is fighting for the rights of Yoruba people and only doing the work that God has sent him to do in the world. He warned that if any evil befalls Igboho, there is a possibility of reprisals by Igboho's supporters. His tweet read, "I will say this once for all to hear. Chief Sunday Adeyemo (aka Sunday Igboho) is by far the most popular and powerful man in South Western Nigeria today. He has inspired millions and restored the honour and self-respect of the Yoruba nation. "He has also proved to the doubting Thomas' that the sons of Oduduwa are not cowards. His views are simple and clear and he is entitled to them. He does not believe in Nigeria but in Oduduwa Republic and that is his right. We may not all agree with those views but we will defend his right to hold them. We may not all accept his methods but, as long as he operates within the law, we have no right to criminalise, demonise, undermine or stop him. "He is not a terrorist, a criminal or a murderer. He is a law-abiding Nigerian citizen and businessman who pays his taxes, defends his people and stands up against dangerous murderers and killers that have come from outside our territory to kill our people. He is not an activist but a freedom fighter, a hero and a liberator of the oppressed who opposes tyranny and the mass murder, ethnic cleansing and enslavement of his people. "Unfortunately, there appears to be a well-orchestrated plan and dastardly plot by some identifiable forces and individuals to eliminate him. The attempt to abduct him like a common criminal in the middle of the road whilst he was on his way to a meeting with our revered father, Papa Ayo Adebanjo, just a few days ago by security forces is just one pointer, amongst many others, to this. "They want to silence him at all cost because of what he has been doing, what he believes in and what he stands for. This must not be allowed to happen. It must not see the light of day. Those behind it must perish the thought because if it does, there will be dire, far-reaching and uncontrollable consequences for our entire nation. If it does, there will be a massive and brutal retaliation and Nigeria will be broken. "If it does, the quest for Oduduwa Republic will no longer be a peaceful, lawful and constitutional one but it will become a violent and brutal freedom struggle which will lead to an armed struggle and civil war in which millions will die. If he is killed, those behind him will stop talking and writing and instead they will start targetting the enemy and fighting. No one will be safe and no one will escape it. "This is not what I wish for but it is what I see and I pray it never comes to pass. Nevertheless, I see and sense it. I perceive it strongly and it scares and worries me. Igboho is unlike any other hero in Yoruba history. He is special and he is the beloved of the Lord. What he is doing is what God sent him into the world to do. He was carefully crafted and prepared for it. Nothing must happen to this great, noble and courageous son of Oduduwa who has captured the hearts and minds of over 60 million Yoruba people from all over the world. He must not be killed. "Let me end with the following. Chief Sunday Adeyemo reminds me of Sir William Wallace (1230-1305) the great Scottish leader and warrior who led an armed rebellion against English rule and who inspired the successful quest for Scottish independence. Even though he fought and defeated the mighty English army successfully on several occasions and in many battles, Wallace was eventually betrayed by the ruling elite of the same Scotland that he sought to liberate. "They gave him over to their English oppressors and overlords in return for land and title yet eventually his cause still prevailed even though it was after his execution and even though he did not live to see it. Without William Wallace (Braveheart) there would never have been an independent Scottish nation with its own independent Kings and Queens. Without him, Scotland would have forever remained a vassal state of England "Without the efforts and courage of men like Sunday Igboho, Olayomi Koiki and a few others there will never be an Oduduwa Republic.''