The National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Bola Ahmed Tinubu is not relenting in his effort to entice the masses to his side in his bid to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. In a viral video, a store was filled with bags of rice with the picture of the former Lagos state governor and inscription, ‘JAGABA: ASIWAJU BOLA AHMED TINUBU’ as workers packaged and piled them up.  Though the APC chieftain has not made his intention known in the public space, sources in the APC say he is planning to take a shot at the presidency in 2023 and succeed President Muhammadu Buhari.  SaharaReporters had earlier reported on April 12, that no fewer than 10,000 bags of rice bearing the name of former Lagos State were taken to Internally Displaced Persons in Maiduguri, Borno State, and shared to the IDPs. The Borno State House of Assembly, led by the Speaker, Abdulkarim Lawan and thousands of the IDPs taking refuge at various camps received the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudasiru Obasa, for donating and conveying the bags. Also, days before, an Instagram username @mansurah_isah of Today’s Life Foundation had uploaded pictures of an event in Kano State with a caption appreciating Tinubu’s foundation for the food items. See Also






Islam
2023: Tinubu Entices Borno Muslims With Rice, 10,000 Bags Shared For Ramadan
0 Comments
5 Days Ago These developments in Kano and Borno states come amid claims that Tinubu is nursing presidential ambition ahead of 2023. The gestures include several donations he had made such as the sum of N50 million to victims of a recent fire outbreak at Katsina Central Market in Katsina State. Meanwhile, Tinubu through his media aide, Tunde Rahman, recently said he was not responsible for the distribution of bags of rice bearing his picture and name. Reacting, he said, “We have seen the images being circulated of bags of rice depicting Asiwaju’s face being distributed across parts of the North.” “I am not responsible for this initiative but l commend the efforts of the various volunteer groups responsible for this benign act of charity and love for one another, particularly in this Holy month of Ramadan.” He, however, commended the efforts of the various groups for their benevolence.