A report by the committee set up by the Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle to investigate the reasons for attacks, abductions and killings in the state has revealed the people behind the perpetual deadly occurrences. The details of the report indicted five emirs, 27 district heads, as well as the military and police.  It identified them as being the brains behind the assaults that have thrown the state into a state of confusion and pandemonium. The National Co-ordinator of the All Progressives Congress Concerned Youths of Nigeria, Dr Suleiman Shuaibu Shinkafi made the revelation on Thursday. In an interview he granted in Kaduna State, Shinkafi, while making a reference to the report tagged: ‘MD Yusuf Committee,’ said the Governor’s refusal to make the findings of the report public as promised had further destroyed his only chances of winning the hearts of the people ahead of the 2023 governorship election. Shinkafi said the state government lamented that the killings by bandits continued to take place despite its negotiations with the criminals. He also said the setting up of the committee was the only good thing the governor had done during his administration. He however said his failure to implement the content of the report has destroyed his good intentions. He said, “The damage has been done; as we speak, killings, abductions are still taking place in Zamfara State. “MD Yusuf committee set up by the Governor of Zamfara State to investigate the reasons for the Killings by bandits was commendable. But he refused to implement the committee reports. He destroyed the good plan, for refusing to execute the reports. “The committee reports said 5 emirs are involved in the banditry, killings and one emir was involved in the killing of one person mentioned; 27 'dekechi' district heads are also involved. “The military, police are also involved, according to the report of the committee that sat for about four months endangering their lives, travelling to villages and came up with the report. “Matawalle promised to execute the report when completed, but up till today he did not. The report is still under lock and key and those indicted are still leaders in the various communities and are still walking on the streets freely and that’s why bandits' killings and abductions will not end in Zamfara State,” Shinkafi lamented.