Some senators and members of the House of Representatives of the All Progressives Congress and Peoples Democratic Party have reacted to the call by the Spiritual Director of the Adoation Ministry, Enugu, saying President Muhammadu Buhari’s impeachment is long overdue. Mbaka had stated that the “National Assembly should impeach the president if he doesn’t want to resign.”  “If members of these two Houses do not want to impeach him, and decide to attack me, something worse than what they never imagined will happen to members of the Senate and House of Representatives,” he had stated in Enugu on Wednesday. 



See Also






Politics
If Lawmakers Refuse To Impeach Buhari But Attack Me Instead, Calamity Will Befall Them – Father Mbaka
0 Comments
1 Day Ago Speaking with Daily Trust, a ranking lawmaker, who is an APC chieftain, said the impeachment of President Buhari was long overdue. The lawmaker, who does not want to be named, said in a telephone interview, “His impeachment is long overdue because the main purpose of government, as enshrined in section 14 (2b) of the 1999 Constitution is security and welfare of the citizens; but as it is now, Nigerians are neither secured nor their welfare is being taken care of. So, it means the purpose of Buhari in government has been defeated. “The president cannot be impeached because he has the leadership of both chambers. That was why at the inauguration of the 9th assembly, the presidency ensured that its candidates were the ones that got elected as presiding officers.” Another lawmaker lambasted the president, saying no sane person will defend failure. He said, “I am not happy with the way the president is managing the country. Defending him will amount to contradicting my conscience.” Similarly, a member of the House of Representatives, Dachung Bagos (PDP, Plateau), said the National Assembly will move to impeach Buhari if the executive does not act on its resolutions on security. Bagos, who was referring to the 40-member special committee on security inaugurated by the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila on Wednesday said impeachment processes will be initiated if the summit’s resolutions were not acted upon by the executive. Contacted, the House Spokesperson, Benjamin Kalu, said the House will work with its resolutions on all issues. “At all times, the parliament will continue to put the interest of the nation first before that of any political office holder in this country and that includes us. “The resolution of the house will define as usual our expectations and outline our lines of actions thereto. Till then it will be wrong to pre-empt it,” he stated.