The former Senator of Kaduna Central District, Shehu Sani, has cautioned the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to be wary in his dealings with northerners, especially their political class. The ex-Senator said most of the northern politicians are hypocrites who will betray him in his presidential pursuit. Shehu Sani Sani, while explaining his recent tweet to Tinubu on his 69th birthday, advised the former Lagos State governor to get someone he trusts to always translate what they say in Hausa whenever he visits the North He said the majority of the common people in the North do not support the touted presidential ambition of Tinubu in 2023. He advised Tinubu to learn from the ordeals of the late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola who, despite his support and achievement in the North, was betrayed by northerners. Sani, who spoke in Osogbo on Sunday, claimed that what the northern elite tell Tinubu in English language is not what they say in Hausa. According to him, it is important for the APC chieftain to get a Hausa language translator whenever he visits the North. He advised Tinubu to restrategise on how to gain support in the North, saying the common people in the North do not support him to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. He said: “Well, the person of Asiwaju is the one I know in the field of struggle. He was one of those in the struggle for the restoration of democracy and also a leading figure in the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) while I was part of the fight for democracy. We worked together for MKO’s project and for the resistance against the annulment. “I know him personally. But what I tweeted is more of a Biblical/Shakespearian allegory or whatever one can use in sending message to someone and what I am trying to say is that as he is allegedly moving towards contesting for the presidency, he should try to know the actual feeling on the ground as far as the North is concerned because I know what Abiola went through. “Abiola served the North more than any other businessman from the western part of Nigeria. He printed the Quran and shared it to many Muslims. He donated houses and empowered people; he supported academics and religious clerics. Abiola was one of those passionate about the unity of Nigeria because of the solidarity between the South-West and the northern part of Nigeria. But how did he end up? They (northerners) conspired against him and sabotaged him and at the end of the day, he was gone.” When asked whether he will support Tinubu when he finally makes his intention known in contesting the 2023 presidential election, the former lawmaker said: “If my People’s Redemption Party (PRP) adopts him, I will support him.”