No fewer than 200 deaths have been recorded in Nigeria in the past one week from unpleasant situations such as insecurity, road crashes, accidental situations, among others. From investigations, SaharaReporters gathered that the majority of those who were killed in the past week were security operatives such as soldiers, police officers and local vigilantes.  Below is a breakdown of the number of deaths recorded from Monday, April 19 to April 27. April 19: Twelve (12) dead bodies were recovered at the scene of a petroleum tanker explosion at Oshigbudu junction in the Agatu Local Government Area of Benue state. April 19: A young man simply identified as Wale died in an auto crash that occurred in Aponmu village in the Akure South council area of Ondo State along Akure/Ondo highway. Four others were confirmed dead from the incident. April 19: Six people lost their lives to a clash between rival cult groups in Ikere, Ekiti State. The state police command spokesman, Sunday Abutu, said six corpses had been recovered and deposited at the morgue after the clash. He explained that the people who lost their lives to the incident belonged to one of the cult groups which was attacked by the other due to rivalry. April 19: Gunmen attacked Zone 13 Nigeria Police Headquarters at Ukpo, near Awka in Anambra State, killing two officers. The deceased were identified as Inspector Ishaku Aura and Uzoma Uwaebuka. April 20: The police in the Federal Capital Territory confirmed the death of a suspect set ablaze in Abuja over the alleged abduction of a woman and her child. The suspect and other members of his gang had reportedly attempted to defraud their victim in a taxi with reg no. KUJ 959 AQ around Wuse 2, Abuja. The people in the area were said to have killed one of them after they were apprehended before police officers arrived at the scene and rescued the others. April 20: Zamfara State Police Command said it killed 30 hoodlums in Gobirawa, Gora, Rini and Madoti Dankule villages in the Maradun and Bakura local government areas of the state. The command's spokesman, Mohammed Shehu, said the operation followed a distress call it received about simultaneous attacks in the areas. April 21: A local hunter identified as Seyi Sansere shot dead a Fulani herder, Muhammed Maikudi, in a forest reserve in Ifira Akoko, Akoko South East Local Government Area of Ondo State. Preliminary investigation revealed that the late herder was traced to the forest by his assailant where he was shot. April 21 Bandits reportedly killed Paul Ode Okafor, a worker at the Greenfield University, Kasarami, Kaduna State. April 21: A young man was allegedly killed by policemen in Awkuzu, Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra state for overtaking their patrol vehicles. An eyewitness told SaharaReporters that the deceased who returned to Nigeria from South Africa last Monday was shot immediately he overtook the policemen. April 21: Gunmen suspected to be bandits attacked Kwangwami community in the Zurmi Local Government Area of Zamfara State, unleashed terror on the residents and killed the Chief Imam, Alhaji Liman Auwalu of the Kwangwami Jumuat mosque and one other villager. According to the villagers, the bandits destroyed many farmlands and made away with cattle and other valuable properties of the villagers April 21: Some unknown gunmen reportedly attacked the Divisional Police Headquarters, Adani in Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State. Two of the police officers on duty were reportedly killed and several others injured, while the police station was burnt. April 22: A woman, Chikodi Ofoegbu, a native of Umuagha village in the Eziama Obiato community, was killed by a stray bullet by jubilating officers. The incident happened along Owerri – Onitsha in Eziama Obiato Community in the Mbaitoli Local Government Area of Imo State. The officers were said to be rejoicing over the safe return of one of their colleagues, who was thought to have been killed during Easter Monday’s attack on the army checkpoint by gunmen. The reappearance of the missing officer led to jubilation amongst the soldiers who started shooting sporadically, thanking God for the safe return of the soldier. April 22: Bandits killed 60 people in some villages in Magami District, Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Villages attacked by the gunmen were Yar Doka, Kango, Ruwan Dawa, Madaba, Arzikin Da and Mairairai. Witnesses said the assailants, who came on motorcycles in their large number, stormed the villages and began to fire sporadic gunshots. This led to the loss of lives and several others were injured, while houses and other valuables of the villagers were razed. April 22: A 29-year-old man, Chukwudi Chukwu, was shot dead by a vigilante at the Okposi community in the Ohaozara Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Chukwu was to wed on April 28, 2021, before his life was cut short by the trigger-happy local security man. April 22: A 25-year-old Amotekun operative, Suleiman Quadir was killed by gunmen in Oyo State in an ambush at Living Farms in Fiditi April 24: Operatives of the Nigeria Police Force and their counterparts from the Nigerian Army and Department of State Services, in a joint operation, on Saturday, stormed the operational headquarters of Eastern Security Network established by the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra in Awomama Village, Oru East LGA of Imo State. They killed Ikonso, the vice president-designate and the coordinator of all the militia operations of the group alongside six other members of the group. April 24. Gunmen suspected to be Fulani herders killed over nine farmers and injured scores during an attack on Ajimaka, a Tiv settlement in Doma Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. It was gathered that the gunmen stormed the community with sophisticated weapons at about 2:00 am on Saturday, shooting sporadically and chanting war songs. April 24: A policeman and an operative of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps were killed by unknown gunmen in their private vehicles at Mgbidi junction, Omuma, Oru East Local Government Area of Imo State. April 24: Two security operatives were killed after some unknown gunmen attacked the country home of the governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma. SaharaReporters gathered that the gunmen invaded the governor’s residence in his Omuma hometown of Oru East Local Government in the early hours of Saturday. April 24: Three students of the Greenfield University, Kaduna, were killed by suspected bandits. The victims were identified as Sadiq Yusuf Sanga, Precious Nwakacha, and Dorathy Yohanna. The students were abducted last Tuesday and their remains were found on Friday in Kwanan Bature village, a location not too far from the school premises. April 25: Militants from the Islamic State-backed faction of Boko Haram, the Islamic State West Africa Province formerly known as Jamā'at Ahl as-Sunnah lid-Da'wah wa'l-Jihād on Sunday attacked a Nigerian Army location at 156 Battalion in Mainok area, Borno State, killing over 30 soldiers. April 25: Many residents of Mainok in Borno state and men of the Nigerian army are feared dead after Boko Haram insurgents attacked the community on Sunday, multiple security sources have told SaharaReporters. April 25: Gunmen attacked four checkpoints along the busy Port Harcourt-Owerri Road, killing about eight security operatives. Out of the eight operatives killed, three were said to be military personnel, three Customs officials and two policemen. April 25: A doctor was killed as gunmen suspected to be bandits attacked Haske Baptist Church in Manini Tasha village, Chukun Local Government Area of Kaduna state. SaharaReporters gathered that an unspecified number of worshippers were also abducted by the gunmen who invaded the church around 10 am. The deceased was identified as Dr Zakariah Dogo Yaro, a medical doctor with the Kaduna State Ministry of Health April 25: Three officials of the Nigeria Customs Service were reportedly killed by unknown gunmen in Isiokpo community in the Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State. April 26: Gunmen attacked the Oriagu police station in Ehime Mbano Local Government Area of Imo state. About six police officers were killed while others sustained different degree of injuries. April 26:Gunmen suspected to be bandits killed a Divisional Police Officer in Kebbi State. The DPO killed was identified as Jimoh Abdullahi. Eight other policemen and two members of a local security group, Yansakai, were also killed in the Sakaba Local Government Area of Kebbi state. April 26: Unknown gunmen stormed Ukpomachi village, Awkuzu in the Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State, killing some unidentified persons and destroying property worth millions of naira. Though the Chairman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, South-East zone, Alhaji Gidado Sidikki, claimed that a total of 19 Fulani people were killed, the police said nine persons were killed. April 26: Five soldiers were killed in a fresh attack by gunmen on a security formation in Rivers State. It was gathered that the gunmen on Monday morning attacked the camp at Abua, in Abua/Odual Local Government Area, killing the officers. April 26: Hoodlums killed Assistant Superintendent of Police, Ibrahim Abdullahi from Adamawa State Police Command during an operation to make arrests in a case of criminal conspiracy and theft. This was confirmed by the command's Public Relations Officer, Suleiman Nguroje. April 26: Two more students of the Greenfield University in Kaduna state who were abducted by bandits were reportedly killed by their abductors. The students were among those that were abducted by bandits from the private university located along the Kaduna- Abuja highway on Tuesday night. April 27: Seven Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs, were killed after suspected armed herdsmen militia attacked the Abagena IDPs camp on the outskirts of Makurdi, the Benue state capital. April 27: SaharaReporters reports how unknown gunmen shot two soldiers and a civilian at a checkpoint at the Timber Junction area, in the Afikpo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. The incident occurred on Monday night.  It was gathered that the victims were attacked around 8.48 pm and the guns of the soldiers were reportedly taken away.