A Nigerian-American, Kelechi Ndukwe, has taken up a role as the commander of a US Navy Guided Missile Destroyer. This was disclosed in a tweet on Thursday by the United States Mission in Nigeria.  The tweet read, “Kudos to Kelechi Ndukwe on his new role as commander of a US Navy Guided Missile Destroyer. The University of Notre Dame and the US Naval War College alumnus becomes the first Nigerian-American captain of a US Navy ship. Congratulations!” Last Thursday, Ndukwe, who is from South-East Nigeria, took over as the commanding officer of USS Halsey (DDG-97), an Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyer.Ndukwe, before now, served as the second-in-command to DeVere J. Crooks who had commanded the ship since November 2019. Kudos to Kelechi Ndukwe on his new role as commander of a U.S. Navy Guided Missile Destroyer. The University of Notre Dame and the U.S. Naval War College alumnus becomes the first Nigerian-American captain of a U.S. Navy ship. Congratulations! pic.twitter.com/SCoaIVBlWd  As the first Nigerian-American to command the ship, the new role is the zenith of his 18-year career in the US navy which started with him working as an auxiliaries officer in 2003, a year after obtaining a master’s degree in national security and strategy studies from the US Naval War College.During the change of command, Ndukwe had spoken about his birth in the US and how he has built a great career in the navy with the help of colleagues. Ndukwe said he is the oldest of his parent’s four children “but also the smallest”. He talked about how his father and mother migrated to the US from Nigeria in 1977 as “poor college students with hopes and dreams”. “And now their son is the captain of a US warship. In America, anything is possible. Thank you for your example of hard work and dedication and the foundation you have laid for your children,” he added. To DeVere whom he took over from, he said the officer’s legacies “will live in Halsey for years to come” and, to his wife, he said, “you are still the greatest decision I have ever made”.Addressing the ship’s crew, Ndukwe said: “I am so honoured and excited to serve as your commanding officer. We will approach any day and mission with pride, professionalism and excellence. You are the life of this ship; this crew is the life of this ship. I thank you for your energy, effort and intensity every day.” From 2013 to 2015, Ndukwe, a graduate of chemical engineering was the commanding officer for the USS Devastator (MCM 6), a minesweeper based in Bahrain. According to the Foundation for Defense Democracies, Ndukwe has served in multiple warships in various parts of the world including the Mediterranean Sea, Horn of Africa, Arabian Gulf, and Western Pacific Ocean. His LinkedIn profile states that he has also served in various other roles such as weapons officer and combat systems officer of USS Fitzgerald in Yokosuka, Japan, from June 2010 to December 2011 and as a navy congressional liaison officer in Washington DC, from July 2006 to August 2008. He also served as the fire control officer of USS Normandy in Norfolk, from 2004 to 2006; and auxiliaries officer of USS Thorn, also in Norfolk, from 2003 to 2004.Ndukwe, who graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 2002, has also worked in the office of the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff (CJCS), America’s highest-ranking military officer.While there between April 2017 and February 2019, he served in the force structure, resource, and assessment directorate which is charged with “providing support to CJCS for evaluating and developing force structure requirements” and which “conducts joint, bilateral, and multilateral war games and interagency politico-military seminars and simulations”. Prior to that role, he had served on the OPNAV N96 as the deputy executive assistant to the director of surface warfare and as the surface strike requirements officer, from June 2015 to April 2017 and March 2015 to May 2015 respectively. The OPNAV N96 is the surface warfare directorate responsible for “the determination of force levels, shipboard and related support requirements and major features of programs involving weapon systems, cruisers, destroyers, frigates, command ships, patrol craft, and littoral combat ships”. Ndukwe now joins the list of other US naval officers making Nigeria proud.