Many Nigerians have taken to social media to lambast the Presidency over its defence of Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Ali Pantami, following his pro-Islamic extremism comments. The spotlight had beamed on the minister following a series of media reports showing his support for terrorist organisations such as the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and allegedly being a Boko Haram apologists. Isa Pantami Several videos and audio proofs of Pantami giving excuses for the terrorists also emerged. Many individuals and groups had called for the resignation of the minister over the development. But in a statement on Thursday, the Presidency said he will not be sacked. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said Pantami’s ordeal in the hands of those calling for his sacking was not about his past utterances but his current job as a minister. The Presidency aligned itself with the submission of the embattled minister that he was young when he made those statements and that his position had since changed. In videos from the 2000s, Pantami, who is a known Islamic scholar, had said that while he was against the extremist anti-western ideologies of Boko Haram, he supported some of what Al-Qaeda and Taliban had preached. This has continued to generate heated conversations on social media as many accused the President Buhari-led administration of supporting terrorism. Many claimed the stance of the presidency is responsible for the unending fight against Boko Haram terrorists in the Northern part of the country. Some users opined that the presidency pardoned Pantami because it also allegedly holds the same views as the minister. A social media user @NgutorJato wrote: “When it comes to terrorism, this government has made it clear. It shall stand by terrorists - forgiving and reintegrating them - if they are not already in power.” Another user, @grandmasta_01 tweeted, “Buhari's federal government tacitly endorses terrorism. It's high time this contraption 'Nigeria' is renegotiated without delay. Buhari has exposed the LIE called Nigeria. #Notojihadism #Notoislamization #Nototerrorism #PantamiMustResign. This is a terrorist-filled FG.” @WhiteAmadasun wrote, “Finally, PMB's and Aso Rock Cabal spokesman has confirmed the incontrovertible fact that Sheikh Isa Pantami's views in endorsing violent activities of Osama Bin Laden, Taliban and instigating the death of Sunday Achi at ATBU are the undeniable Islamic ideological views of PMB.” @Truthfully83 stated: “A terrorist can only support a terrorist. No wonder Nigeria is not winning the war against terrorism. A government of terrorist, that aligns for the North, to destroy the South.” @OkoroCollins11 wrote: “Finally The President and the Presidency have confirmed what Nigerians have been saying. #Pantami was appointed because he shares the same views on terrorism with the powers that be. We're in a big mess as a nation. #PantamiMustGo #PantamiResignNow.” For @mrfestusogun, soldiers fighting terrorism are wasting their time fighting against terrorists when people in governance are terrorist apologists. He said, “Soldiers in war front wasting their lives in the name of patriotism should be pitied really. The fight against terror will not end if it is continued in Sambisa. The real war front is Aso Rock where the real terrorists hide. Buhari open support for terrorism speaks volume.” With a similar opinion, @AbdulKadiir wrote, “If your relative is in the military, better advise them to withdraw, they should stop sacrificing their lives for nothing in the name of fighting insecurity! Nigerians brace up! Your Israelite days are here for God has hardened Pharaoh's heart! #PantamiMustResign #PantamiResign.” @AjammaS opined, “Isa Pantami will never resign because he is a Fulani, Muslim and a northerner. But had it been he is a Southerner, it could have been a history, remember what happened to CJN Onnoghen.”Referring to a part of the statement that Pantami was in his twenties when he made the pro-terrorism statement, social media user, @Sboj5 said, “If such is the case that people are allowed to make mistakes in their youth, why did you and your bloodthirsty army open fire on innocent youths at Lekki toll gate? If they were making a mistake, they should have been forgiven too. You have blood on your hands."