Operatives of the anti-kidnapping and cybercrime unit of the Edo State Police Command have arrested a 25-year-old sales representative of a famous pharmaceutical company in Edo state, Chikezie Precious, for allegedly faking his kidnapping. It was gathered that the suspect, who has been working with the pharmaceutical company for three years, owed the company some unremitted money from sales of the drug to the tune of N900,000.  According to sources, Chikezie planned and executed a self-kidnapping scheme, in an attempt to make the company write off the debt. The suspect allegedly drove the company's delivery vehicle, and abandoned the vehicle along the Auchi/Ewohimi/Agbor Road, left the key on the driver’s seat and took a mode of public transport to Benin City, where he lodged in a hotel at the Ikpoba Hill area of the city. Police sources said Chikezie switched off his mobiles phones and asked a friend to call his company’s management to inform them that he had been kidnapped along Ewohimi/Agbor Road. Following the call, the company’s management reported the alleged kidnapping at the Igbanke police division, where the company vehicle was recovered. Thereafter, the case was transferred to the anti-kidnapping and cyber-crime unit of the state police command, for further investigation. Using high-tech equipment, the operatives traced Chikezie to his hideout, where he was arrested. Confessing to his crime, the suspect admitted that he did it in an attempt to have the company write off his debt. Chikezie said, “I owe my company over N900,000.00 and they have been disturbing me to pay back. “After too much stress, l decided to fake my kidnapping to see if they could write off the debt for me. “I lodged in the hotel at Ikpoba Hill, in Benin City, and asked my friend to call my boss to announce my kidnapping.” When asked about the whereabouts of his friend who made the call, he said, “I don’t know where he is right now. Maybe he has escaped.” Confirming the story, the state police spokesman, Kontongs Bello, said the suspect would be thoroughly investigated, profiled and charged to court.