A human rights lawyer, Ayo Ademiluyi has demanded the release of two men protesting against President Muhammadu Buhari, illegally detained by security agents in Kogi State. The two men, Emmanuel Larry and Anene Victor, are currently suffering in a correctional facility in Kabba, Kogi State, for protesting against President Muhammadu Buhari.  A viral video captured the moment the duo were confronted by a group of men in a community in Lokoja for carrying placards with the inscription ”Buhari Must Go” and painting the same message on a roadside structure. See Also






Politics
REVEALED: Governor Bello's Appointee Who Ordered Flogging, Torture Of Anti-Buhari Protesters In Kogi Identified
0 Comments
5 Days Ago One of the men who appears to be the leader of the group is seen in the footage chastising the two: “… And you are writing ‘Buhari Must Go’. Who told you Kogi is not for Buhari? We, the Kogi youths, are for Buhari. That’s why we are not going to accommodate you guys. We’ll deal with you.” They then flogged the two men, insisting they must scrub the painting off the wall. Ademiluyi, in a statement, dated April 11, 2021, made available to SaharaReporters on Thursday condemned the attacks on Larry and Udoka. In the statement entitled: Day 28 OF #RESISTOPPRESSION: RELEASE #KOGI2, EMMANUEL LARRY AND ANENE VICTOR, he described their arrest and detention as assaults on democratic rights under President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. The lawyer urged the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello to vindicate himself in the matter by seeing that the two regain their freedom without delay. “I write to demand the immediate release of Emmanuel Larry and Anene Victor, two #RevolutionNow activists, who are being held for pasting 'Buhari Must Go' posters in Kogi State. “I am seized of a viral video wherein the two activists were flogged with a cane and ordered under duress to blur the 'Buhari Must Go' graffiti. “I view their arrest and detention as an attack on democratic rights under the current (retired) Major General Muhammadu Buhari-led regime. “I also challenge the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello to clear his name in the alleged involvement in the travails of the #Kogi2. “I unequivocally restate my call for their immediate release. The refusal, failure and neglect of respective security agencies to release #Kogi2 will open floodgates of legal and political actions to secure their release,” Ademiluyi said.