The Head of the Nigeria Office of the West African Examinations Council, Patrick Areghan, has said that Nigeria is not ready for the 2021 West African Senior School Certificate Examination. He made the remark on Tuesday during a press briefing to announce the release of private candidates' results for the WASSCE 2021-First Series. Students Writing WAEC Areghan said, "It will be calamitous to offer the exam to students in the first term; as we all know, the schools are running different terms. We do not know when the exam will be conducted, but we will conduct it if the government says so. "If the government says, 'don't conduct exam', we cannot do it. Nigeria federation is not ready for the 2021 exit exam. We are starting all over again because we are struggling; some countries just started their educational system afresh. "Nobody is ready for the exam due to COVID-19. If the government says we should conduct the exam today, we are ready for the exam. We can't conduct it in April, May, June, but to obey the Nigerian government and in conjunction with the other four countries and then the international timetable will be drawn." Areghan further stated that the private examination was primarily designed to help candidates seeking tertiary institutions' admission to reduce the waiting time for results and beat admission deadlines. "The analysis of the statistics of the performance of candidates shows that out of the 7,289 candidates that sat for the examination, 2,938 candidates, representing 40.31 per cent, obtained credit and above in a minimum of any five subjects (with or without English Language and Mathematics, out of which 1,396 were male and 1,542 were female candidates, representing 47.52 per cent and 52.48 per cent respectively. "Two thousand one hundred and ninety-five (2,195) candidates, representing 30.11per cent, obtained credits and above in a minimum of five subjects, including English Language and Mathematics," he added. Areghan said that the results of 599 candidates, representing 8.22 per cent of the total number of candidates that sat the examination, were being withheld, according to the Punch report.