The Nigerian Air Force has reacted to SaharaReporters’ report of an airstrike on men of the Nigerian Army. The newspaper had reported how a military fighter jet on a mission against Boko Haram extremists mistakenly bombed a military truck on Sunday, killing over 20 army personnel. File photo used to illustrate story.






See Also






Military
How Nigerian Air Force Killed Over 20 Army Officers By Accident In Strike Targeting Boko Haram
0 Comments
10 Hours Ago The insurgents had attacked a military base in Mainok and overpowered the troops who called for reinforcement. A source had told SaharaReporters that a reinforcement team of the Nigerian Army sent to the community was mistakenly bombed by an Air Force fighter jet. “The Boko Haram terrorists disguised in military uniform and gained access to the camp. They came in different groups and could not be counted. The Nigerian Army were pinned down, they requested for reinforcement, the reinforcement got on their way only to get smoked by the Nigerian Airforce. “The (reinforcement team) was coming from Ngandu and were killed by an airstrike. The Air Force mistook them for Boko Haram as both were clad in similar military uniform and operational vehicles,” a source had told SaharaReporters. In a tweet on Monday, the Air Force said it is investigating the alleged incident and that the general public will be duly updated as soon as the investigation is concluded. The tweet read, “The attention of the @NigAirForce has been drawn to reports alleging “How NAF Killed over 20 Nigerian Army Personnel by Accident in Air Strike” at Mainok which is about 55km to Maiduguri. The NAF wishes to state that visuals and reports been circulated are being investigated and the general public will be duly updated on the alleged incident. All enquiries should please be directed to the Office of the Director of Public Relations and Information, Headquarters Nigerian Air Force.” investigated and the general public will be duly updated on the alleged incident. All inquiries should please be directed to the Office of the Director of Public Relations and Information, Headquarters Nigerian Air Force or forwarded to info@airforce.mil.ng.- 2/2 