Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) on Wednesday decorated the new acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, with his new rank in the State House, Abuja. President Muhammadu Buhari who is currently in London had on Tuesday approved the replacement of Mohammed Adamu with Alkali.  The Minister of Police Affairs, Maigari Dingyadi, who disclosed this to State House correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said that the appointment was with immediate effect. Until his appointment, Alkali was DIG, Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID). The new acting IGP was born in 1963 and joined the Nigerian Police Force in March 1988. He has a master’s degree in Public Administration (MPA) and a BA (ED) in Political Science from the University of Maiduguri and Bayero University, Kano respectively.  Vice President @ProfOsinbajo decorates the new Acting Inspector General of the @PoliceNG Usman Alkali Baba at the State House, Abuja.#AsoVillaToday pic.twitter.com/N2tCcwjDZu  A fellow of the National Defence College and a member of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, Alkali has attended several professional courses/workshops. The Yobe-born police officer has held several strategic positions in the past. These include: Assistant Inspector-General of Police in-charge of Zone-5 Benin, Zone-4 Makurdi, Zone-7 Abuja, Commissioner of Police FCT and Delta Commands amongst others. He is expected to be in acting capacity pending his confirmation by the Senate. Present at Alkali’s decoration ceremony taking place at Vice President Conference Hall were the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; former IGP, Adamu; Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Maigari Dingyadi; Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu; and his colleague in the office of the Vice President, Laolu Akande. See Also






Politics
How Ex-IGP Adamu Paid Over N2 Billion For Tenure Extension But Got Sacked After 2 Months
0 Comments
8 Hours Ago