The Boko Haram insurgents have released photographs of Nigerian Army’s highly priced gun trucks and a Borno State Police Command patrol vehicle captured and stolen from Dikwa, when the terrorists attacked the town on Sunday. The photographs showed that the Nigerian Army, despite claiming it repelled the attacks, lost three BTR Armoured Personnel Carriers, Panhard AML-60 and another Melara Mod 56 Pack Howitzer to the terrorists.  The insurgents also displayed photographs of “Mortar Bombs and Type 86P hand grenades, PG-7V/PG-7VM, 37mm launchers, and 12.7mm ammo” it stole from the military in Dikwa.  Meanwhile, the terrorists stole a police patrol van belonging to the Dikwa Police Division as it overran the town on Sunday.  The Nigerian Army had on Monday confirmed that the Boko Haram fighters attacked Dikwa town in the Dikwa Local Government Area of Borno State with no fewer than 12 gun trucks. The Nigerian Army had noted that the insurgents attempted to take control of the town during the evening Ramadan fast break, but they were repelled by the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole. See Also






Boko Haram
Boko Haram Fighters Invade Dikwa During Defence Minister, Service Chiefs’ Visit To Borno
0 Comments
2 Days Ago SaharaReporters had same Monday reported that hours after the Minister of Defence, Maj Gen Bashir Magashi (retd.) led the Chief of Defence Chief, Gen Leo Irabor and other service chiefs went on an assessment visit to Maiduguri, Borno State, the Boko Haram insurgents invaded Dikwa town with several gun trucks. The Boko Haram and Islamic State West African Province fighters attacked Dikwa town, only about 85 kilometres from Maiduguri, on Sunday evening, engaging the troops in a gun battle which lasted for hours. There had been explosions in parts of the town, even as the ISWAP fighters took control of the major access roads into the area. In a release by the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig Gen Mohammed Yerima, the army had stated that the terrorists attempted to take over the town but they were repelled by troops who are still patrolling the town. The army was, however, silent on the casualties suffered by its troops or civilians. The army spokesman had said, “Troops of Operation Lafiya Dole currently carrying out Operation Tura Takaibango stationed at Dikwa and Gulumba Gana supported by the Air Component inflicted heavy casualty on Boko Haram Terrorists who attempted to take control of the strategic town of Dikwa, the headquarters of Dikwa LGA of Borno State. “The terrorists in their numbers mounted on 12 gun trucks attacked the town on the eve of Sunday just as the locals prepared to break their Ramadan fast for the day. The troops having contained the initial wave of the attack had to occupy their alternative Headquarters at Gulumba Gana to enable the Air Component engage any gun trucks and other technicals in the vicinity of the attack to prevent fratricide. “The retreating terrorists suffered heavy losses in both equipment and personnel including some of their key leaders from the superior fire power of troops both from the air and ground forces. The troops are currently patrolling Dikwa town and environs to assess the level of damage inflicted on the terrorists.” 