The Governor of Zamfara State, Bello Matawalle, says the protests against the medical vacation of President Muhammadu Buhari in London, United Kingdom is an attack on the North. Buhari is currently in London where he would be spending two weeks to enable him to undergo a medical checkup. Zamfara Governor, Matawalle. To express their displeasure at the medical trip, some protesters have been protesting at the gate of the Nigeria House, brandishing placards with different inscriptions. In a statement issued on Thursday, Matawalle described the protests as ”sponsored” and their organisers ”uncivilised”.



See Also






VIDEO NEWS
Medical Tourism: Nigerians In The UK Continue #BuhariMustGo Protest To Demand President’s Return Home
0 Comments
20 Hours Ago The statement read, “As a Northerner, I condemn in strongest term how in the same manner of hatred, President Muhammadu Buhari was treated by so-called protesters that could not hide their disdain and hatred for the North. Their action, no matter their grievances, is uncivilised, highly irresponsible, unpatriotic and disrespectful to the person and office of the President and has demonstrated the growing hatred against anything North. This is certainly NOT the way to express dissatisfaction but an act of humiliation and hatred consistent with the southern agenda as the promoters and sponsors are well known and are only looking for opportunities and slightest excuse(s). “Responsible and civilised protest should address only issues but reducing such sponsored protests to abusing the President, his family or parents as we have seen in London is most unfortunate, uncivilised and condemnable. I am sure they wouldn’t have done that for Buhari if he is from the South as we have seen several times on matters of their interest and agenda. The real motive and agenda of the so-called protest is not for Nigeria but to humiliate the President, that is why the number of the protesters, considering the large number of Nigerians living in London, is so negligible as they could be easily counted. See Also






Politics
Southerners Shouldn’t Expect Protection If Killing Of Northerners Continues In South — Matawalle
0 Comments
1 Hour Ago “For the North to survive and defend its interests, our leaders MUST have the courage to always speak out against such aggression and to protect Northern interests, the way our contemporaries in the South often do, even when there is no justification to do so. We MUST not be ashamed to defend our people and protect our interests the manner they are doing. But in doing so we must not be blind, like they often are, to overlook the shortcomings or the faults of our people whenever there is one. Nigeria is for all of us. Peace or preservation of peace MUST be reciprocal and in the absence of that, we demand that we will no longer tolerate what has been happening to Northerners in different parts of the South over the last few months.”   WATCH: How Kogi Government-sponsored Hoodlums Tortured #BuhariMustGo Protesters and Then Had The Commissioner of Information, @KingsleyFanwo Upload The Gut Wrenching Videos On Twitter and Facebook @OfficialGYBKogi pic.twitter.com/utx2MWvL7a 