The Senior Pastor of Trinity Church, Ituah Ighodalo, says it is foolish to reject the COVID-19 vaccine.  Speaking on Arise TV, Ighodalo urged pastors to encourage their congregation to invest their time in getting scientifically proven information from professionals on the COVID-19 vaccine rather than spread conspiracy theories and unverified information. Pastor Ituah Ighodalo He said the argument for and against the vaccine is a problem of knowledge.  Ighodalo called on pastors to do their research and get knowledge instead of misinforming and improperly educating people on guesswork, instincts and mere suppositions.  He said he had already taken a jab of the vaccine as directed by God after prayer.  “It is foolishness to keep having faith that God will protect you from an infection, when he has made provision for vaccines that can provide a high percentage of protection.  “I have taken the jab. I prayed about it, and I got a clear direction from God to go and receive it, and I have explained to my people in church that God provides knowledge.  “I will like to appeal to my brother pastors to do their research, get the knowledge and stop misinforming and improperly educating people on guesswork, instincts and mere suppositions. Coronavirus is real, and you need the vaccination,” he said.  The cleric touched on the need for the government to compel churches to get the necessary knowledge and answer important questions on COVID-19 vaccine.  He said, “Some people think the COVID-19 vaccine is a deliberate effort to wipe out the human population.  “We need to address the fears and prove it is not so. Other persons think it is the sign of the Antichrist (666) and we need to prove this is not also true.  “Other people believe the vaccines have long-term effects and if you take it today, in 20 years’ time, it will affect them. We also need to address such fears and prove scientifically this is not so.” The position taken by Ighodalo clearly contradicts the general view of some of his colleagues.  For instance, the Pastor of Household of God Church International Ministries, Chris Okotie in a recent viral video described as satanic the inoculation of COVID-19 vaccine while giving his submission on the drug.  The preacher asserted that anyone who takes a jab of COVID-19 vaccine has entered an agreement with the devil.   He also stressed that the vaccine against the coronavirus would turn those who have taken it into vampires that suck other people’s blood for sustenance.  “You do not understand the spiritual import but now you know. So, when you eat that genetically modified food that you eat and take the vaccine, you’ve entered communion with Satan, with Lucifer. And that communion involves blood.  “Now, since the blood of Jesus is not what is talking about, or what he has to offer, he will require you to seek blood somewhere else. And the only place where you can find blood is in another human being. So one of the things that the vaccine will make you do is to become a vampire who needs to drink blood for sustenance,” Okotie had said.  Similarly, the General Overseer of the Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman, once said he and his biological and spiritual family would not take the COVID-19 vaccine.  Suleman, however, did not attribute his decision to spiritual but medical theories surrounding the vaccine.  “Some say it’s the Antichrist but I’ve said to you before that, when the Antichrist will come, we will not be here. We would have been gone. I don’t say it is spiritual but I see something medical, that thing is not good and I’m hearing in some places now, they are making it compulsory,” Suleman said.  Another preacher that has opposed it is the founder of LoveWorld Incorporated, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome, who said Christians should believe in the word of God than in the vaccine.  “What happened to you? Where is the word of God in your mouth? Do you realise if you believe in the word of God the way you believe in this vaccine, there will be power in your mouth? He made us healers. What’s wrong? What happened to you? When did we start making such recommendations to God’s people? For God’s sake, think again!” Oyakhilome said.