The Governor of Zamfara State, Bello Matawalle, has vowed to demolish any house providing refuge for weapons suppliers or informants aiding banditry in the state. The governor revealed this on Tuesday when his Sokoko State counterpart, Aminu Tambuwal, visited him along with his council members who came to sympathise with the government and people over the recent bandit’s attack in some parts of the state. Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle Matawalle said he had ordered for serious disciplinary measures, including the demolition of any house where informants, weapons suppliers, and people who are abetting banditry activities are arrested in the state with immediate effect. He said the action became necessary in order to fully combat the resurgence of armed banditry activities in some parts of the state which is being assisted by the people who are living mostly in the cities and providing information to the bandits in the bushes. Matawalle further said the activities of the informants are creating a lot of problems in the ongoing fight against banditry in the state and called for the support of citizens in the state in order to win the fight. He also urged traditional rulers in the state to stay alert and monitor the activities of landlords giving out houses for rent, leading them to report any suspicious movement to security agencies for immediate action. The governor explained that if actions like monitoring movements of suspicious characters are taken, the killing of innocent souls will reduce significantly in the state. The Sokoto State Governor, Tambuwal, while speaking said he was in Zamfara State to commiserate with the government and people over the recent unfortunate killing of innocent souls in some of the states which he described as “devastating and tragic.” Tambuwal who noted the killing of innocent souls as a serious disaster prayed for the repose of the souls of those lost during the attacks. The former Speaker of the House of Representatives said that they were happy with the commendable efforts taken by Matawalle in handling banditry which decimated killings and other crimes since the coming of Matawalle’s administration and will not accept the sudden sad resurgence of the banditry. He later led members of his Executive Council in prayers for an end to the killings bewildering the country.