The family of the late Yinka Odumakin, a former spokesman for the pan-Yoruba group, Afenifere, has denied sourcing for funds for his burial. A statement issued on Wednesday by the widow of the deceased, Joe Okei Odumakin, said the family will not want the legacies left behind by him to be compromised.  The family officially announced the order of programme for the burial rites in a statement sent to SaharaReporters. The Odumakins also warned people to be wary of other programmes published by other people to avoid being misled or taken advantage of. See Also






News
Family Announces Yinka Odumakin's Burial Arrangements
0 Comments
1 Week Ago The statement read, “Yinka Odumakin's Journey Home (As announced by his family). “In the wake of sundry programmes being published by people other than us, we the family of the late Yinka Odumakin thought it fit, proper and necessary to guide sympathisers and guests with the authentic programme for the funeral of our beloved husband, father, son, and brother. “Thursday, April 22, 2021: Funeral rites kick off at the Police College, Ikeja at 11 am. There will be lying-in-state, tributes and service of songs at this venue. All events end at 4 pm. There will be no further events at this venue after 4 pm to allow preparations for the following day's events. “Friday, April 23, 2021: Body departs Lagos for his Moro country home in Ife North LGA. In Moro, there will be a candlelight procession at Origbo Anglican Grammar school. Take off time is 6 pm. “Saturday, April 24, 2021: There will be lying-in-state at 8 am at Origbo Anglican Grammar School, Moro.  The funeral service takes place at 10 am after which his remains will be interred at a private ceremony. “We urge everyone to be wary of other programmes which run contrary to the one outlined here to guide against being misled or taken advantage of. “The family has not mandated anyone or group to source for funds or other resources to ensure the befitting burial we are according to our son. “While the family appreciates the effusive outpouring of love from the generality of the people for the life of sacrifice and public service that Yinka lived and the legacies he has left behind, we wish that nothing is done by anyone or group to tarnish his image or compromise the ideals that he lived for. “This bounden duty we owe our departed son as his loving and grieving family. And we wish that everyone will please respect our feelings.”