The Lagos State police command has dismissed one of its officers, Inspector Jonathan Kampani, for killing a businessman who demanded to know why the officer wanted to search him.  Kampani shot and killed the 45-year-old businessman, Jelili Bakare, who was relaxing at the Quinox Lounge, Sangotedo, Lagos on March 18, 2021, after the latter questioned the officer. Lagos CP Hakeem Odumosu The sacking of the officer was disclosed in a statement issued by the Police Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, on Sunday after the Directorate of Public Prosecution, DPP, found him culpable for homicide.  Part of the statement read: “The Lagos State Police Command has dismissed one AP No 278055 Inspector Jonathan Kampani, attached to Mounted Troop of the Nigeria Police Force, for firing and killing one Jelili Bakare at Quinox Lounge, Sangotedo Area of Lagos State, on 18th March, 2021.  “The Command has conveyed the dismissal of the erring Inspector from the Nigeria Police to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State CID, Panti, Yaba via letter numbered AR. 3100/LS/ SPM/vol.2/321 dated 16/4/2021, for prosecution as advised by the Department of Public Prosecution, DPP, of the Lagos State.”  Adejobi also stated that the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, had ordered the arrest and immediate orderly room trial of the inspector after the incident.  Odumosu had earlier led a team of senior officers in the Command to pay a condolence visit to the family of the deceased at Chief Bakare’s House, Ajiranland, Eti-Osa Local Government of Lagos State, on Saturday 27th March, where he promised that justice would be done on the matter.  The police boss, therefore, urged the general public, especially the family members of the deceased, Jelili Bakare, to be patient and trust the police and the judiciary, promising that the matter will be given the necessary attention and commitment it requires.  He, however, reiterated his zero tolerance for professional misconduct and inappropriate behaviour among police personnel in the state.