The Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Rev. Matthew Kukah, has said that he will continue to pray that Muslims would build a church for Christians one day. Kukah stated this on Monday during the commissioning of 86 housing units with a church and mosque for Internally Displaced Persons in Sangere-Marghi village of Girei Local Government Area of Adamawa State.  DAILY NIGERIAN reports that both Muslims and Christians benefited from the houses built by Most Rev. Stephen Dami Mamza, Catholic Bishop of Yola Diocese. Kukah said the significance of building the housing estate and the mosque should not be lost. “Nigerians should learn to practice the religion of tolerance and love for their neighbours. “It is important that Christians and Muslims appreciate what the Diocese of Yola has done today,” Kukah said. The renowned cleric charged the governor of the state, Ahmadu Fintiri, to impress other northern governors with the need for synergy between government and religious leaders to promote love and peace in the region and the country. In his remark, Fintiri commended the laudable initiative and commitment of Mamza to serving humanity and promoting religious tolerance in the state. “We are gathered to celebrate one of the outstanding humanitarian efforts in the history of care and support as a nation. “We are happy to be part of this effort to resettle our brothers and sisters that were displaced by insurgency since 2014,”  Fintiri said. In his response,  Mamza disclosed that the Catholic Diocese built the estate with national and international partners’ support. “This project is a tall dream come true since the Catholic Diocese of Yola first opened its doors to host IDPs on Sunday, September 15, 2014. “This was after the collapse of some local governments in Northern Adamawa, following  Boko Haram attacks on villagers. “At the height of the displacement in October 2014, when Mubi town and environs came under Boko Haram occupation, thousands fled into Yola and approached us for food and shelter. “We have been taking care of the IDPs for the past seven years with the little assistance we receive from our major partners. “The Catholic Diocese of Yola, with its local resources, also constructed a Mosque for some of our Muslim IDPs,” Mamza said. He appealed to government and humanitarian actors for more assistance, saying that displaced persons needed to be given opportunities to be productive and self-reliant. According to him, this will prevent the IDPs from being passive recipients of aid, which results in dependency syndrome. News Agency of Nigeria reports that many notable personalities, including Rev. Bulus Yohanna, Bishop of Kontagora Diocese, representative of Lamido of Adamawa, other top clergy, government officials and politicians, attended the event.