The Indigenous People of Biafra has described as ‘fake and laughable’ the report from the Department of State Services that it is planning to move explosives from Lagos State to Imo State. The group added that it is not a terrorist group and does not need explosives, describing the allegation by the nation’s secret police as a propaganda to further dent the image of the pro-Biafra group. File photo used to illustrate story. In a statement it titled, ‘DSS Claims That We Are Importing Explosives Into Imo State Fake, Laughable – IPOB,’ the group on Friday reiterated that it remains a non-violent organisation. This was contained in a statement by the IPOB media and publicity secretary, Emma Powerful. The DSS has earlier said the IPOB’s Eastern Security Network has acquired bombs and explosives with which they intended to destabilise Imo State. The secret police stated that it received intelligence that the explosives were being conveyed in articulated trucks from Lagos to a hideout in Orlu, Imo State. The DSS stated this in a letter to the Brigade Commander, 34 Artillery Brigade, Obinze, Owerri, Imo State. The DSS letter with reference number, S.238/5/1538 dated April 26, 2021, was signed by I. Abdullah on behalf of the Imo State DSS Director. It was titled, ‘Movement of explosive devices into the state by IPOB/ESN’.’ The letter read, “Intelligence revealed that the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra/Eastern Security Network has acquired bombs and Improvised Explosive Devices with which to further their subversive activities. “It was reliably gathered that the newly acquired items are currently being conveyed from Lagos to an unconfirmed location in Orlu Local Government Area. “The items are being concealed in articulated/heavy-duty vehicles to beat security checks along the road. It was further revealed that the group intends to deploy the explosives in their planned attacks on security/government installations across the state.” Reacting, the Nnamdi Kanu-led group said, “The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has been drawn to the frivolous and concocted press statement by the Nigerian Department of State Services, DSS, that IPOB is moving explosive devices from Lagos to Imo State. This is another propaganda by the agency to blackmail IPOB. “There is no iota of truth in the said report. It's fake and laughable. IPOB has no intention to acquire explosives. We are not terrorists and do not need explosives. “Right from inception, IPOB has remained a peaceful movement. We know the antics of DSS and other Nigeria security agencies. They only want to demonise IPOB and other Biafran agitators to stain our global reputation.” The secessionist group also faulted the DSS for not having intelligence report on bandits and Boko Haram insurgents tormenting Nigerians, except on IPOB and other freedom fighters in the country. “It's only laughable that DSS cannot find where bandits, Boko Haram and other Fulani terror groups are in Nigeria but it easily concocts intelligence about IPOB and freedom fighters. “This false alarm which is a smokescreen anyway is akin to their concocted intelligence about two weeks ago when they claimed IPOB had plans to invade banks to steal money for arms importation. But our intelligence unit uncovered their plot and we raised the alarm. Many didn't believe us but later, criminals and cultists arranged by DSS robbed banks in Anambra and pointed accusing fingers at IPOB. “What intelligence agency is DSS that cannot give accurate intelligence reports on the activities of terrorists but rather has a penchant in dishing out false intelligence on peaceful agitators! What hypocrisy! "In a similar vein, we want to alert Biafrans and the world at large that Governor Nyesom Wike has resumed his killing spree against Biafrans. Right now in Igweocha, as at April 29, 2021, innocent people are being indiscriminately arrested in their numbers around Pure Water by Elohani area by security operatives. No fewer than 30 innocent Biafrans have so far been arrested and taken to unknown destination. Nigeria Government should ensure nothing untoward happens to these Biafrans. They must answer for their whereabouts!” the group concluded in the statement.