A London High Court has granted an order stopping Maureen Badejo from publishing further defamatory words against or concerning the founder of the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM), Daniel Olukoya and his family. In addition to the perpetual injunction, the judge, Master Gary Thornett, also ordered Badejo to pay the legal costs incurred by the Olukoyas in the suit. General Overseer of the Mountain of Fire and Miracle Ministry, MFM, Pastor Daniel Olukoya. This was even as Thornett ruled that further court session(s) would be held to determine the actual cost to be awarded to Olukoya, his family and the Church. The claimants had instituted the suit following over 52 claims against them by Badejo and her GIO TV on YouTube and Facebook. They were represented by Nath Director and Solicitor of Nath Solicitors London Boutique firm specialising in defamation and by Jonathan Price of Doughty Street Chambers. But in a counterclaim, Badejo had demanded monies allegedly lost by her from the shutting down of some of her broadcasts by YouTube and Facebook sequel to complaints from Olukoya’s lawyers. In his ruling, however, the judge dismissed Badejo's claim, describing it as a “frivolous”, and an abuse of process. He held: “…it is overwhelmingly clear that the nature of this defamation is severe and serious…..and that the number of publications is considerable”. In a statement, Olukoya said: “These victories are a tribute to the Lord our God who would never permit evil to triumph over righteousness.” Tuesday’s decision makes it the second time Badejo would receive knocks from the justice system for defaming the Olukoyas and the Church. On February 9, 2021, an Abeokuta High Court awarded N250 million each to the Olukoyas and MFM (making a total of N500 million) as aggravated and exemplary damages for libel committed against them by Badejo. The court also ordered Badejo to immediately pull down and erase each of the offending online publications/posts concerning the claimants from the internet.