President Muhammadu Buhari has named a Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali as the new Acting Inspector General of Police. Alkali replaces Mohammed Adamu, who is currently on an official visit to Imo state.  Adamu had during his visit to the burnt Imo Police Command headquarters and the Owerri Correctional Service on Tuesday ordered police operatives to be ruthless against members of the proscribed Independent People of Biafra (IPOB) and Eastern Security Network (ESN). President Buhari had on February 4th, 2021 extended his tenure contrary to the provisions of the Police Act 2020, which in Section 7 (6) fixes a single term of four years without an option of extension of tenure for the holder of the office of the Inspector-General of Police. “A person appointed to the office of the Inspector-General of Police shall hold office for four years,” it read.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Buhari Appoints Usman As Acting Inspector-General Of Police 
0 Comments
5 Hours Ago Section 18 (8) of the Act signed by President Buhari on September 15, 2020 also read, “Every police officer shall, on recruitment or appointment, serve in the police force for 35 years or until he attains the age of 60 years, whichever is earlier.” Adamu had however spent two months and three days out of the three months extension. His replacement, Alkali, who was DIG, Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID) was named on Tuesday by the Minister of Police Affairs, Maigari Dingyadi. The new acting IGP was born in 1963 and joined the Nigerian Police Force in March 1988. He has a master’s degree in Public Administration (MPA) and a BA (ED) in Political Science from the University of Maiduguri and Bayero University, Kano respectively. A fellow of the National Defence College and a member of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, Alkali has attended several professional courses/workshops. The Yobe-born police officer has held several strategic positions in the past. These include: Assistant Inspector-General of Police in-charge of Zone-5 Benin, Zone-4 Makurdi, Zone-7 Abuja, Commissioner of Police FCT and Delta Commands amongst others.