The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele has refuted the allegation made by the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki that the Nigerian government printed N60 billion last month to support allocation for states. Emefiele, in his clarifications, told the Edo governor that what he was referring to was simply lending money to states. Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele.
Chris J. Ratcliffe/Bloomberg






See Also






Politics
‘Stop Playing The Ostrich, You Printed N60billion To Support March Allocation’ - Obaseki Replies Nigerian Government 
0 Comments
23 Hours Ago The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed had earlier dismissed the claim by Obaseki as false. However, Obaseki reiterated his position, asking the Nigerian government to end the current monetary rascality and stop playing the ostrich. Speaking with journalists on Thursday, Emefiele described Obaseki’s claim as a political ploy that is “unfortunate and totally inappropriate”. According to him, the Nigerian government had distributed loans to states to manage the economic complications resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic. “If you understand the concept of printing of money, it is about lending money. There is no need for all the controversy around money printing as if we are going into the factory to print naira and then distribute on the streets,” he said. “It is very inappropriate for people to just give some colouration to the word ‘printing of money’ as if it is a foreign word coming from the sky. “In 2015/2016, we were in a similar [fiscal] situation, but it is far worse today. We provided budget support facility to all the states of the country and that loan remains unpaid till now. We are going to insist on the states paying the loan back since they are effectively accusing us of giving them loans. “Most countries of the world today are confronted by not just the health crisis from the COVID pandemic but also economic crisis. I keep saying this: it would be irresponsible of the central bank of Nigeria or any central bank to stand idle and refuse to support its governments  at this time. Whatever we do in Nigeria is being done in any clime. “Nigeria is unfortunately in a very bad situation and we cannot pretend about it in the sense that we are facing problems about productivity output which is gross domestic product (GDP). We are working very hard to see how we can get our heads above water. We are also concerned with issues of inflation. “For us to see some people playing some games, overheating his polity talking about printing of money, I think it is unfortunate and totally inappropriate. I would like to advise that this should stop. We should all work for the growth of our country and not play politics.”