Apostle Paul Okikijesu of the Christ Apostolic Miracle Ministry has released some prophecies he claimed God revealed to him concerning the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan; Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, and acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba. The cleric in a statement on Monday said Mohammed must change his ways as God was waiting for his repentance, otherwise the minister would become an “evil story.”  Okikijesu also prophesied about Lawan, asking him not to allow foreigners to control the country ahead of the “looming crisis.” He said, “Thus says the Lord: People will coerce him [Lawan] to sign laws that can destroy Nigeria and ruin the future of the youths. He must be cautious and prayerful because the looming crisis will burst. “Thus says the Lord: This is a fragile period; the Senate President must not allow the foreigners (hosts of hell) to control Nigeria, and put it in perpetual bondage.” On the newly decorated Inspector-General of Police Usman Baba, Okikijesu said, “Thus says the Lord: He will be successful, if he listens to the voice of I, the Lord, more than that of humans. “The I.G. Baba will be removed if he rejects the voice of God. Thus says the Lord: If he rejects the voice of the Lord, he will be removed from office. “He should use the wisdom of God to provide security/protection for the Nation, so that his appointment will not be to hurt/harm the innocent, and spare the wicked/evil doers; in a manner that will make him to be removed suddenly from the office.” On Minister of Information and Culture, Mohammed, Okikijesu warned him to change his ways or “he will become an evil story.” “Thus says the Lord: Inform the Minister of Information to repent, and turn to I, the Lord; else his case will become an evil story in Nigeria. He should utilise the wisdom of I, the Lord,” he added. “He should not allow anyone to push him to make a speech that can hurt/harm the country and ruin the future of the youths. I, the Lord, is waiting for his repentance, and he should move closer to Me.” Making further claims about the Minister of Transformation, Amaechi, the cleric said the former Rivers State Governor will be betrayed. “Thus says the Lord: He should be prayerful during April and May 2021. The people he trusted will betray him. “Thus says the Lord: He should be cautious; some people will be after his life, because they don’t want his existence anymore. The existence of Rotimi is inconveniencing those people. He should pray against those after his life so that he will not die/fall suddenly,” he added.