Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency have arrested two suspects who produce and sell drug cookies to schoolchildren and other unsuspecting members of the public in Abuja. The suspects, a university student, Rhoda Agboje, and her boyfriend, Ifeanyi Nwankwo, were arrested for producing the cookies with Arizona, a highly psychoactive variant of cannabis; alcohol, and Rohypnol, among other ingredients.  The syndicate was unravelled following the arrest of Agboje who was caught with four pieces of the drug cookies on Sunday. The Commander, FCT Command of the NDLEA, Mohammed Malami Sokoto told journalists that Agboje was arrested at the NNPC Cooperative Estate, opposite Gaduwa Estate in Abuja, based on a complaint after she gave an unsuspecting young girl the cookies to eat. The young girl, after eating the drug cookies, lost her mind and could not sleep, making incoherent utterances due to the effects of the cookies. Under interrogation, the prime suspect, Agboje, confessed that she prepares the cookies with a friend and sells each pack of three pieces at N1, 500. A follow-up operation in her boyfriend’s house led to the recovery of over 200 pieces of the drug cookies. Sokoto said, “The boyfriend, Ifeanyi Nwankwo, and all the equipment used for the production of the cookies were brought to the office for further investigation. “The suspect confirmed that she sells at parties and to unsuspecting members of the public, including schoolchildren that are the most vulnerable. The suspect also supplies some supermarkets and clubs in the FCT.” Narcotics agents with the FCT Command of the NDLEA have also launched a manhunt for another member of the syndicate involved. In reaction, Chairman/Chief Executive of the NDLEA, Mohamed Buba Marwa, on Tuesday, commended officers and men of the FCT Command for unravelling the syndicate. According to him, what the syndicate was doing is not only criminal but equally unconscionable by deliberately luring schoolchildren into taking drugs under the cover of selling to them biscuits or cookies. “I wish to draw the attention of parents to this new devious strategy to get children addicted to drug cookies and to urge them to remain vigilant while monitoring what their wards bring home from school or consume as a snack,” Marwa said.