The Peoples Democratic Party's South West Concern Youth Forum has accused the party’s national legal adviser, Barrister Emmanuel Enoidem of playing the card of Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, with the intention of destabilising the South-West zone of the party. The group in a statement by its leader, Ibrahim Adedamola Abbey said the activities of Enoidem were tantamount to sinking the party in the zone and by extension, the whole of PDP into oblivion before the 2023.  Abbey also chided the former governor of Ekiti state, Ayo Fayose for not being able to curtail his appetites for more power, thereby creating an enabling environment for a total stranger to infiltrate the region. He said he had the details of how a former governor of Akwa Ibom, Godswill Akpabio, instructed the PDP national legal adviser to ensure Fayose’s interest in the South-West region is protected at all cost. “I have the details of how Godswill Akpabio instructed PDP national legal adviser to ensure his friend, Ayo Fayose’s interest in the South-West region is protected at all cost, a plot that will directly work in the interest of the APC. “By working in the interest of Fayose, he is directly setting party leadership in the region on a collision course,” he said. He continued, “We are writing this as patriotic and loyal party members against the dangerous, risky, unethical, dishonorable actions of PDP South-West leader including the former governor who is now hidden under the shadow of PDP national legal adviser to perpetrate this destructive agenda adding that the party’s legal adviser activities were tantamount to sinking the party’s in South-West zone and, by extension, the whole of PDP into oblivion before the 2023. “There has never been a day in which a zonal meeting was called to discuss crucial, far-reaching, significant, epoch-making and consequential issues. “It is important to note, that we live in a time when our party members are cross-carpeting into other political parties, especially APC, due to numerous unresolved, unattended and petty issues especially in the South west geo-political zone because of selfish agenda of some few elements who have the support of the party national legal adviser. “APC is very much aware of its lacklustre performance that has impoverished Nigerians. Most of the electoral promises remain unfulfilled hence the feeling that the party might be rejected like PDP was in 2015. For the PDP, it is a positive development for its chances in the 2023, as the party has been working to ensure that it retakes the government at all levels. However, personal interests of members and the leaders may rob the party of that golden opportunity. “Hence the ruling party is allegedly being proactive in its strategy by planting moles in the fold of PDP leading to it’s balkanization into factions in the south west and this must stop.”