The Nigeria Police have come under attack after a viral picture of Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) former housemate, Terseer Waya, popularly known as Kiddwaya, with their officers surfaced online. Kiddwaya on Wednesday shared pictures on Instagram where he had about four policemen with guns as escorts.  This did not go down well with Nigerians who called out the police for giving such security to the reality show celebrity, while insecurity heightens in many parts of the country. However, some hailed Kiddwaya, who has billionaire father Terry Waya, explaining that the level of kidnapping in the country was enough reason for him to have such security. This comes shortly after the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba ordered the withdrawal of senior police officers from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Here are some comments gathered by Daily Post from Twitter: @4eyedmonk: “A whole four police officers to a private citizen that can easily get himself akpu obi bouncers? Police, this picture shames the force and the new IGP.” @Leosessy: “What is the work of our private security outfits? Four police officers to only one celebrity is not morally right.” @Debo: “That’s the reason we’re having security challenges in this country. Police that’s supposed to be guiding ordinary citizens were attached to dubious VIPs.” @Ufomma: “Any IG of police that doesn’t have as his number 1 priority the cancellation of VIP policing, beginning with men of god (because they already have anointing), is not serious about insecurity!" @Thepublicdefender: “All the lies about withdrawing police personnel attached to private individuals.” @YahayaNeutral “Nigeria Police Force is for the rich and famous, Not for ordinary Nigerians. In a country where we are complaining of being under police and lot of security challenges, we have four policemen guarding just an individual.” @Berbzz: “It’s a big shame. If you have money, hire private security.” @DJ_Sp4all: “It seems the Nigerian Police system is a private security system which is operated by the Federal Government.The highest bidder takes all. No wonder the common man is not adequately served. It is a shame.” @negromaniacs: “Not his fault though, the system that made this possible is to be blamed. NPF has no respect. Now imagine the number of personnel across the entire country doing same thing to protect the rich. Thousands that ought to be combating crime. Even Miyetti Allah has too.” @Psalm35_: “We have private securities in Nigeria, why are they not using them? VIPs can’t use the police in South Africa, they use private security.” @Ladeepee: “Do you know how much he is worth if he gets kidnapped? Abeg let him use 100 of them if he needs too. Prevention is better.” @Martolerix: “If kidnappers lay hands on him, do you know how much in dollars they will demand? Abeg leave him to secure himself and his life in a country wey even police station use chain to lock down their generator from thieves.” @Dique_money: “Oh boy, three military grade guns, three magazines (probably 1 extra each), hundreds of rounds of bullets to protect only one civilian. Something is wrong somewhere.” @YolandaMny: “The problem is not Kidd using a security company that hires policemen, it’s your government paying your police service so poorly that they need a side hustle. Stay focused, face Buhari.” @Abazeesi: “Why do you move with all these guards, fear of being kidnapped? Someone should explain because I don’t get." @MrWick: “I thought they said the new IG withdrew all policemen attached to VIPs; everything is just audio in this Nigeria.”