Nonagenarian politician, Tanko Yakasai, says President Muhammadu Buhari is too lazy to solve Nigeria’s problems, insisting he only presented himself for election “to have power and make money.” Yakasai, who served as an aide to former President Shehu Shagari, told Sunday Tribune that Buhari’s incompetence is evident in his failure to develop a programme that will help tackle the country’s challenges. He described Buhari’s election as the greatest mistake made by Nigerians. Tanko Yakasai “I have never supported and will never support Buhari. I know Buhari has no competence to rule the country,” he said. “I have never changed my mind about his lack of competence to lead the country.” Yakasai, 94, said he has always opposed Buhari’s regime “because I knew he could not solve our problems as a country. The capacity is not just there,” while stating that he “would join efforts to look for somebody who can solve our problems.” The elder statesman believes that Nigeria’s problems cannot be solved until there are key strategies put in place. “Nobody can solve Nigeria’s problems until there is a programme for solving the problems,” he said, adding that “Many now want to become president because they want to have power and to make money.” “Such people can’t solve our problems or the problems of any country. Only people who put their minds to the problems can solve such problems. If we want to develop agriculture, we must have a programme that solves the problems in that area,” he added. Yakasai noted that despite his opposition to Buhari’s regime, he would not support those seeking to break Nigeria apart. The president is believed to have failed Nigerians in his promises of curbing corruption, insecurity, improving the citizens’ quality of life, and tackling the country’s economic woes. Buhari’s regime has been accused of worsening corruption, nepotism, banditry and kidnapping across the country. The United States recently described his regime as worsening human rights in Nigeria while looting the country with impunity.