A former deputy governor in charge of operations, in the Central Bank of Nigeria, Chief Bayo Adelabu has alleged that the governor of the state, Seyi Makinde and the state police commissioner, Ngozi Onadeko are blocking him from supporting the widows of policemen killed during 2020 #EndSARS protest. Five policemen were killed in the state during the #EndSARS protest and their families have not received any compensation from the police or the government.  #EndSARS protests were held in some states last year to kick against police brutality and that a notorious police unit, Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), should be disbanded. SARS was eventually disbanded and replaced with the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT), which has not shown that it is different from SARS. Some of the affected widows have allegedly withdrawn their children from school because of lack of financial support.  Investigation by SaharaReporters at the Eleyele headquarters of the command revealed that the affected widows had not been able to meet the new Commissioner of Police to discuss how they can be compensated for the loss of their husbands.  Adelabu, who made the allegation while hosting some Muslim journalists for break of fast at his Iyaganu GRA hotel, said he personally located the widows.   The state governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 general elections noted that his investigation revealed that Governor Makinde had instructed the police commissioner not to accept any donation from him.  According to him, the governor is playing politics with the lives of innocent children of the police killed by an angry mob at that time.  Explaining further, Adelabu said; "Just last week, when I heard the plight of the wives of the #EndSARS victims, I was expecting the state government to compensate them just as other state had done before I support them with my own token but I didn't see anything and that was why I approached the CP (Commissioner of Police) last week.  "I went there with (a) cheque but the CP refused to collect the cheque for them. I asked my people to take blocks to the burnt police stations but they didn't allow them to offload the blocks.  "I am doing this because Oyo state is my home and I must ensure the state is safe for everyone. The Ojoo police station that was burnt was strategic and dare to me. We must not allow politics of bitterness and selfishness to negatively affect our people."