A top officer of the Nigerian Navy, Rear Admiral Ibrahim Dewu, and his four security aides, threw caution to the wind by beating up and brutalising a lawyer, Hadi Jazuli, and his brother, Suleiman, a policeman, along the Kubwa-Zuba Expressway in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. SaharaReporters learnt that Rear Admiral Dewu ordered the torture of the two men for overtaking his convoy while driving into Galadima Estate entrance gate along the expressway in Abuja. Ibrahim Dewu (centre) being decorated with rank of Rear Admiral in 2019 It was gathered that the two victims were hit in the chest and face with guns by Dewu’s escorts, giving them injuries. Eyewitnesses told SaharaReporters that the power-drunk naval officer and his gang of escorts after physically assaulting the Jazuli siblings, refused to go to a nearby police station where the assault was reported. A witness, Adamu, said, “The incident occurred on Monday at the Galadima Estate entrance gate in Abuja. Hadi, a lawyer, was returning to Abuja from Kano State with his family, where he had gone for the weekend. “His brother, Suleiman, drove another car, but they were moving together into the estate. The problem started when the two cars attempted to overtake the Rear Admiral’s convoy – a Sport Utility Vehicle and a Toyota Hilux van – because they were moving too slowly. “Before anyone realised what was happening, the soldiers got down like they were in the front, dragged the two men out of their cars and began to beat them up.” It was learnt that at the entrance of the housing estate in Galadima, the four naval personnel pounced on the lawyer and the policeman and brutalised them while passersby watched helplessly.“The attention of police personnel was drawn to the altercation and they invited us to the police station. Although Admiral Dewu and his boys pretended they were going to the police station, they zoomed off. So, it was only the victims who followed the policemen to write our statement. “The victims have instructed their lawyers to also file a civil action against the officer and his boys for the enforcement of fundamental rights, that were recklessly abused,” another source privy to the incident disclosed. SaharaReporters learnt that Dewu had paid some cronies and news reporters to doctor the incident and write that the two men were the ones who rammed into his vehicle. “We do hope that the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, will investigate this public ridicule by one of his top officers and prevent a recurrence,” the source added.