A Kenyan woman on Friday, April 16, stunned the court after she has admitted to falsely accusing a Nigerian man, Edwin Chukwudiebere Okoye, of defrauding her and of having a sexual relationship with her. The Nairobi-based woman, Bella Bronislavia, admitted that she was the one who loaned him the said cash and there was never a sexual relationship between them. File photo used to illustrate story. It was gathered that in December 2020, Okoye was charged with obtaining money by false pretence after being accused of defrauding his Kenyan girlfriend Sh31 million. Okoye was accused of conspiring with other people to defraud Bronislavia between May 2017 and May 2018. Appearing virtually before Senior Magistrate Derrick Kutto at Kibera Law courts on Friday, April 16, Bella said that she had loaned Edwin Okoye Sh31 million to invest in his business, but he struggled to pay back, prompting her to move to court. Bella also told the trial magistrate that she never had any sexual relationship with Okoye, as she earlier claimed. In documents presented in court, Bronislavia transferred Sh5 million to the said account on December 18 in 2017, Sh8 million on January 2, 2018, and Sh5 million in the same month. She also transferred Sh5 million on February 16, 2018, another Sh6 million on February 24, and finally Sh1 million in March. The revelation comes after the magistrate, in December 2020, ordered the two to resolve the dispute amicably and report back to court with a definitive agreement. "I am giving you time to settle the case amicably and report back to court with a definitive agreement on a settlement," ruled the magistrate. Bella further admitted that Okoye refunded her Ksh500,00 days before the suspect being arrested by the police. She was, however, unable to explain to the court why she resorted to incriminate Okoye and for also lying to the court despite voluntarily assisting the suspect. Okoye, in his defence, said that he was amicably settling the matter with the complainant.