The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, has said no one deserves to be in any Nigerian prison when killer herdsmen and Boko Haram militants get arrested, freed and rehabilitated. Kanu disclosed this on his Twitter handle on Monday morning. Nnamdi Kanu He tweeted, “If Miyetti Allah terror herdsmen & other murderous #Fulani groups, including Boko Haram insurgents, can be arrested, freed and rehabilitated by this neo-colonial Fulanised @NGRPresident, then no single soul deserves to be in any prison in Nigeria. If you know you know! #UGM” If Miyetti Allah terror herdsmen & other murderous #Fulani groups, including Boko Haram insurgents can be arrested, freed and rehabilitated by this neo-colonial Fulanised @NGRPresident, then no single soul deserves to be in any prison in Nigeria. If you know you know! #UGM  This comes as over 2,000 inmates at the headquarters of the Nigerian Correctional Service, Owerri, Imo State were set free by unknown gunmen on Monday morning. The gunmen also attacked the nearby office of the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) of the state police command, also freeing suspects there. There are allegations that the attack was carried out by operatives of the Eastern Security Network. This is, however, not yet established. According to reports, the attackers burnt almost all the vehicles parked at the command headquarters and freed all the suspects in almost all the cells at the SCID. The attackers were said to have had  a free rein during the operation that lasted about two hours and said to have started between 1 am and 2 am on Monday. SaharaReporters learnt that the gunmen caused panic in the town as explosions were heard around the state police command headquarters and the NCC facility in Owerri. This is the fifth attack on police headquarters across the state. Four police divisional headquarters had been attacked since February. They include Obowo, Aboh Mbaise, Ihitte/Uboma, and Isiala Mbano Police Divisional Headquarters located at Umuelemai in Imo State. When contacted, the police spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, confirmed the attacks.