Embattled Nigeria’s Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami and some Northern Muslim leaders in 2010 vowed to make Plateau state ungovernable for former governor Jonah David Jang, a communique adopted at the meeting of Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) at Bauchi Central Mosque has shown. Jang was governor of the state from 2007 to 2015. Isa Pantami The Islamic clerics in the meeting chaired by Pantami urged Muslims to fight the Jang-led government and the entire Christians in any way possible. They claimed they were ready for jihad, adding that over 3, 000 arms had been imported to the state. “The Muslims Ummah has resolved to fight his (Jang) government and the entire Christians in any way possible. We shall never support this government and shall destroy any development that shall come to Plateau state, even the existing one. "Again, we are ready for Jihad in the state as over 3, 000 arms have already entered the state and we will not vote during the governorship election. But we shall ensure that we have the position the Federal House of Representatives of Jos North/Bassa, Chairman Jos North, Senator representing Plateau North, Plateau state member, Jos North. “They shall shed the last drop of our blood to ensure the Jos master plan and the ban on okada is not realised. The ummah in Jos shall frustrate the peace and development in Jos. All traders and okader riders have been enjoined not to go out for their business on daily basis. They are soliciting the entire Muslim ummah in Nigeria to support Islam in Plateau in cash and in kind as there is an endowment fund raising to procure more arms and especially explosives. They have also declared both open and silent killings in Muslim areas on any Christian and security. See Also






Islam
Pantami Was Chief Imam Of ATBU Mosque When My Son Was Killed By Islamic Extremists —Father Of Murdered Christian Students' Leader
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “We have pledged to deal with any Muslim, especially those dining with the governor for their selfish needs without giving consideration to the ummah; they shall kill them and their families and wipe their generation away. We are watching. “Having seen the need for Islam to take their rightful place in Jos, there is need for all the Muslims in Nigeria to come to terms and re-strategise. Muslims all over should bear in mind that Jos is now labelled as a deadly zone for all none Christians. There is need of all Muslims in Plateau state to ensure that Plateau is captured and declared a Muslim territory. “With the way the governor and the government of Plateau state is dehumanising, scorning the religion of Allah, the only solution for our liberation is jihad. The Muslim ummah shall use Jihad and ensure that Governor Jang does not return to office. Muslims in the state shall ensure that few months before the general elections, Jihad will be declared in the state which cannot be controlled even by security agencies with great slaughter and massacre which the FG will have no option than to declare a state of emergency in Plateau. “They shall also use some of his political rivals to fight him and ensure that he does not return to office so that the plight of Muslims will be reduced. While they guard their areas, they must go out and attack the Christian dominated areas and also destroy any government property at their disposal in the state.” Pantami has been under fire since the visual and audio clips of some of his teachings resurfaced over a decade later, some of which showed he was sympathetic to Islamic extremist sects like Al-Qaeda and Taliban. He recently placed a curse on the convener of human rights group, Concerned Nigerians, Deji Adeyanju for asking the United States to place him on terrorism watchlist Commenting on a post by one of his followers attacking Adeyanju, Pantami wrote in Hausa, “Allah ya tsine masa alubarika” which means “May Allah rebuke his blessings.” He, however, later denied posting the comment, saying his Facebook account was hacked by "some youth".