A cross-section of Nigerians have taken to social media to comment on the absence of President Muhammadu Buhari at the launch of a book written in honour of his wife and First Lady, Aisha Buhari. Prominent Nigerians were at the launch of the book, “Aisha Buhari, Being Different”, which held at the Conference Centre in Aso Rock on Thursday.  Buhari, who is currently in London for a medical check-up, was represented by his Chief of Staff, Prof Ibrahim Gambari. This, however, left many tongues wagging. Below are some reactions as compiled by Daily Trust: Aisha Buhari is launching her book today, her husband Baba dey chill for London. How on earth did we expect a scattered family to fix Nigeria? pic.twitter.com/FbESbLlPFX — Okey (@Okeydegeneral) April 8, 2021 Saw a line or two on the book launch for Aisha Buhari holding today. A lot was said about her being a motivating factor behind Buhari’s political aspirations. I’m keen on knowing her role when he unleashed violence after he lost in 2011. Did she intervene to quell the violence?— theonly1acre (@theonly1acre) April 8, 2021 A Milestone for Aisha Buhari, for being the very First Nigeria’s First lady to write and launch a book while her husband is on a medical journey in London. She indeed was able to lure from far and wide incredible sons and daughter of Nigeria such as Thievnubu,Kogi’s Y.B etc— SurvivalIsTheGoal (@GoalSurvival) April 8, 2021 At least Patience Jonathan would lament, mixed up her grammar over kidnapping & killings in the country. Aisha Buhari stayed in Dubai for 3 months while women & children were getting roasted by terrorists – upon her arrival, sis want to launch a book for hungry Nigerians to read?— FS Yusuf (@FS_Yusuf_) April 4, 2021 ‘Not for hungry Nigerians to read, Aisha wants to cash out’. Sis isn’t launching the book for hungry Nigerians to read, or didn’t you see the guest list of about 15 billionaires?? Sis wants to enter market on the 8th of April & take profit that same day ooo!! Just wait till you hear the donations coming in.— H.E. Mobola Adedotun (@IamMobola) April 5, 2021 She Don open office for their head. Aunty Wan cash out…— The real Mccoy (@samchiz) April 5, 2021 It’s all about money bro. Neither Aisha nor her husband cares. As far as their pockets are getting full. They are very satisfied.— Stanley Goodluck (@stanleynanka) April 4, 2021 Madam first lady want collect her own national cake. I think she has been sidelined for long, hence she got her masterstroke of launching a book to help her own treasury.— Jamie _Fash (@IddieFasakin) April 4, 2021 Can two walk together except they agree? There can never be a Buhari with an Aisha. They are so compatible, otherwise, they would not have stayed that long together. #Birdofafeather— Helen Francis (@HellenaFr72) April 4, 2021 “Aisha Buhari: Being different”. There is a joke somewhere inside that title— Esiri Umukoro (@esiriumukoro) April 4, 2021