A global rights group, Amnesty International, has lampooned US President Donald Trump for inciting the Capitol riots in Washington on Wednesday. According to the group, Trump failed to act as a leader yesterday but instead chose to act as an ‘instigator’.  Supporters of Trump had invaded Capitol during a joint session of Congress to certify the electoral victory of President-elect Joe Biden. The Capitol violence, hours after an extraordinary rally by Trump challenging his defeat, saw flag-waving backers break down barricades outside the Capitol and swarm inside, sending the legislative sessions into an emergency recess. Four persons have been pronounced dead while scores were reportedly injured. See Also






United States of America
 LIVE: Trump-Biden Transition Updates
0 Comments
17 Hours Ago Congress leaders, however, reconvened after the riot and affirmed Biden’s Electoral College victory over Trump. Reacting, Amnesty’s US Interim Executive Director Bob Goodfellow said, “President Trump’s refusal to facilitate a peaceful transfer of power has put human rights, public safety and the rule of law at grave risk in the United States. “The President’s embrace of white supremacist groups and extremists has further fanned the flames of the chaos and violence we witnessed today. All U.S. officials must respect, protect, and fulfil human rights, including the right to be free from violence, intimidation, and racism. “Amnesty International works for a world where all those in power respect the law, meet their human rights obligations and are held to account when failing to do so. “Across the world, we have witnessed the dire consequences of government officials who spread false information and incite racist or political violence to stay in power. The world is watching, and so are more than 10 million supporters and members. “This is a moment of reckoning for the United States. President Trump has repeatedly encouraged violence and disorder by his supporters. These are not the actions of a leader but an instigator. All public officials must condemn the President’s words.”