The historical event that transpired on the 6th of January, 2021 will forever be hearkened back in the great history book of record of the United States of America and the world at large. This is highly disheartened, in a reputable nation with a high standard of political settings, befalling itself in the open face of the world with a crestfallen mode of democracy that was suddenly introduced on the basis of the event that had come to pass on the 6th of January 2021. Birthed into such kinds of FAQ from the intellectuals across the globe: is the United States of America rightfully practicing what the whole world can call a modern democracy? The answer is absolute No. it is more or less like a pride of shame, degrading is prestigious integrity laid by the forefathers the nation. I believe Abraham Lincoln and the likes of others will be weeping out their tears bitterly in their prospective graves regarding the catastrophe. Following a musical tune of the Nigerian Afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo Kuti in a musical track titled “Beast of No Nation” the Afrobeat Legend Fela Kuti pulled out a rhetorical question in a pidgin language asking Africans to question the prefix “united” appearing in the name United Nations and in the United States of America.  Fela asked: “wetin unite inside the United nation? East block West versus West block East”. Fela Kuti emphasized that he has not seen any symbol of unity despite the fact that the nation bears the United States of America as its name. According to him, the internal boras within the states and tribes that make up the United States of America has not been buried for centuries and the United States of America will always call for an interference; disguising as a peaceful nation when other nations most especially countries in the Africa continent and other nations across the globe find themselves battling in the political wilderness. On the basis of his ideology, the interference of the United States of America in any crisis in an Africa nation isn’t for the sake of peace and harmony but for captivity and for personal benefit.  More so, the United States of America as a nation competing with China in the league for dominating the world. The current sad tale would suppress the built noble reputation of the United States of America as a nation to a devastating degree in such a way that some countries in the Africa continent and other nation might get rid of united states of America as a weak political emulator which has lost its strength of political organization now being seen as a nation looking for more prey for captivation and victimization. Indeed the United States of America might have forever lost its glory as a nation on the throne of political advisory for other developing nations across the globe. For case study, in a country like Nigeria, the most populous nation in the continent of Africa of about more the 206 million according to the 2020 estimate of the National Population Commission (NPC) of the country. A nation that has been conquered by the warriors of China as a nation with huge investment and monetary relationship. It may be highly impossible for the United States of America to get its ground back in such a nation in line with odd policies placed on Africans especially Nigerians by the government of the United States of America in the recent years. Nigerians are being perceived by Americans with ill reputation and blackishly attribute, it has not stopped there. This catalyzed some weird policies such as mass deportation and visa ban on some Nigerians that might like to visit the United States of America for greener pastures. Unfortunately no way for them under the governmental administration of President Donald Trump that came into office as the president of the United States of America in January 2017 under the platform of the Republican Party defeating Hillary Clinton of the Democratic Party in the 2016 US election. JANUARY 6TH, 2021 CAPITOL INVASION IN WASHINTON DC After several litigations that roamed across the globe that President Donald Trump failed to concede defeat against his political rival Mr. Joe Biden, the president-elect of the Democratic Party in the November 3rd, 2020 election. The whole world at large perceived that President Donald Trump has this cruiser emphasis that he will surely win the November 3rd US election expect if the November 3rd election is to be rigged. All are pre-election matters but President Donald Trump can’t just let it go by waving his hands to his shadow as an ex-president of the United States of America without breaking the yoke of re-seat in his sanctuary. So sad, President Donald Trump lost the November 3rd US election to the candidate of the Democratic Party but finds it uneasy to acknowledge the result announced by the different media houses across the globe, as it the usual ethics of the nation, unlike that custom of some African countries that citizen must wait for the electoral commission for the final election result. Still, on his old emphasis, President Donald Trump believes that he won the November 3rd US election but his victory was stolen away by the media and some forsaken politicians that don’t want vast development of the United States of America. President Donald Trump kept informing his supporters that his mandate must be restored. Perhaps, that might be the chemistry behind the invasion of the Capitol building on the 6th of January, 2021 after the lawmakers had done with the post-election Congress. Although the United States of America congress had certified the candidate of the Democratic Party, Mr. Joe Biden as the winner of the November 3rd US election, hours later the invasion by some mobs who claimed they are supporters of the incumbent president, President Donald Trump. Lawmakers resumed the session after police removed the mobs that have been encouraged by President Donald Trump as part of his attempt to overturn his defeat. The certification clears the way for Mr. Joe Biden president-elect to be sworn in on the 20th of January 2021. Shortly after the catastrophe that resulted in the death of four Americans, the incumbent president, President Donald Trump conceded to be defeated by his rival Mr. Joe Biden, the president-elect, and he finally pledged an orderly transition of power. If adequate care is not taken, if the United States of America ceased to have learned its lessons from other past fallen nations across the globe, it might yield to an unerasable track record in the history of the planet with this current record of odd democracy. The United States of America may start appearing as one the one-time dominants nation in the world, if there are no swiftly steps for absolute corrections to erase the mess that is currently hindering its integrity nation, it will forever tarnish reputation of the United States of America and its modes of democratic rulings falling to a devastating state.