Twitter, Facebook and Instagram have temporarily blocked US President Donald Trump’s accounts on their platforms, condemning him for flouting their content rules, following the violence that broke out at the US Capitol early Wednesday. While Twitter suspended Trump’s account for 12 hours, Facebook and Instagram have put his accounts on hold for 24 hours. Twitter also removed three tweets made by Trump.  “We've assessed two policy violations against President Trump's page which will result in a 24-hour feature block, meaning he will lose the ability to post on the platform during that time," Facebook said in a statement. The company also removed certain posts made by the US President during the Capitol Hill violence last night. Instagram head, Adam Mosseri, also confirmed via Twitter that Trump’s account has been blocked on the photo-sharing platform too. See Also






United States of America
 LIVE: Trump-Biden Transition Updates
0 Comments
5 Hours Ago Former US President Barack Obama has accused his successor, President Donald Trump, of provoking his supporters who stormed the US Capitol and violently clashed with police in an attempt to stop President-elect Joe Biden's certification on Wednesday, January 6. "History will rightly remember today’s violence at the Capitol, incited by a sitting president who has continued to baselessly lie about the outcome of a lawful election, as a moment of great dishonour and shame for our nation. But we’d be kidding ourselves if we treated it as a total surprise," Obama said. In the statement, he issued via his Twitter page, Obama also criticised Trump and his supporters' untrue allegations of election fraud, saying, "For two months now, a political party and its accompanying media ecosystem has too often been unwilling to tell their followers the truth — that this was not a particularly close election and that President-Elect Biden will be inaugurated on January 20." "Their fantasy narrative has spiralled further and further from reality, and it builds upon years of sown resentments. Now we’re seeing the consequences, whipped up into a violent crescendo," Obama said. “Right now, Republican leaders have a choice made clear in the desecrated chambers of democracy. They can continue down this road and keep stoking the rage fires, or they can choose reality and take the first steps toward extinguishing the flames. They can choose America. “I’ve been heartened to see so many members of the president’s party speak up forcefully today. Their voices add to the examples of Republican state and local officials in states like Georgia who’ve refused to be intimidated and have discharged their duties honourably. We need more leaders like these – right now and in the days, weeks and months ahead as President-elect Biden works to restore a common purpose to our politics. It’s up to all of us as Americans, regardless of party, to support him in that goal.”