A Police Sergeant, Ibrahim Odege, attached to the Operations Department of the Rivers Police Command has been arrested alongside one Sampson Inomoghe at the scene of a crime at Elekahia Housing Estate in Portharcourt, Rivers State. Security guards and the estate residents arrested the two suspects during a robbery operation on Saturday.  SaharaReporters gathered that the security guards overpowered the armed robbers who had robbed many residents of their belongings in the area before alerting police officers from Elekahia Divisional Police Station who were said to have responded on time. A police identity card was found on Odege with three different handsets belonging to their victims and one locally made Bareta pistol. One of the victims, Mrs Doris Elechi, identified them as those that robbed her of her Tecno handset, one of the items recovered from them. Confirming the incident, the Spokesperson for the Rivers State Command, SP Nnamdi Omoni, said the suspects had confessed to the robbery attacks among other revelations on Sunday. Omoni said the Commissioner of Police, CP Joseph G.Mukan, had ordered the suspects' immediate transfer and exhibits to the State Criminal Investigation Department for Investigation. The statement read, "Operatives of the Elekahia Division on 16/1/2021 at about 2200Hrs responded to a distress call at the Elekahia Housing Estate, where two armed robbers who were robbing people and dispossessing them of their valuables were arrested. "The timely arrival of the police led to the arrest of the two armed robbers who were later identified as Sergeant Ibrahim Odege attached to the Operations Department of the Rivers Police Command and one Sampson Inomoghe' m' 32yrs from Nembe in Bayelsa State but resides at Rumuokwrushi in Obio/Akpor LGA. "The duo was arrested at the crime scene with the following exhibits: three different handsets belonging to their victims and one locally made Bareta Pistol. One of the Victims, Mrs Doris Elechi, identified them as those that robbed her of her Tecno handset, which is one of the exhibits recovered. "At the station, the suspects confessed to have carried out the robbery attacks among other revelations. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, CP Joseph G.Mukan, has condemned the act and ordered the immediate transfer of suspects and exhibits to the State Criminal Investigation Department for Investigation."