The family of Zaynab Odunsi, who was reportedly trafficked to Iraq in February 2020, has accused the agent who facilitated her trip of conniving with his corresponding partner in Iraq to stall the victim’s return. Opeyemi Odunsi, a younger sister of Zaynab, told SaharaReporters that the agent in Iraq refused to help her sister retrieve her passport from a placement office in the unstable oil-rich country, where Zaynab had fled to escape experiences of torture. Illustration The agent, a male simply identified as Ahmed, had insisted that Zaynab was a lazy girl, who ran away from her employer and did not take her documents with her. Zaynab, whom her sister says is a certified nurse, arrived in Iraq on February 18, 2020. Like hundreds of Nigerians trafficked to different parts of the globe to work as home helps, she soon found out that what thought she was going there to do was way different from what was offered to her. Zaynab went there for a nursing job but was asked to work as home help. A source familiar with the story said, upon finding out, Zaynab started pressuring Ahmed to bring her home. Although Zaynab’s ticket and visa were taken care of by the placement office in Iraq, Ahmed said he placed a commission of N300,000 on Zaynab and her family for helping her secure a job in Baghdad. The ‘service charge’ was to be paid to him in six installments of N50,000 monthly, once Zaynab started earning. Ahmed, who denies trafficking Zaynab, was not open to the possibility of not getting his commission paid and Zaynab breaking her two-year contract. After an eight to nine-month spell in four different households, Ahmed said he told her family that “your sister is not of good character.” Within those months of swiping furniture, dusting stucco and brushing ceilings, Ahmed said he received N100,000 – payment for just two months. The job however took a toll on the lady and she fell ill. Zaynab’s stomach swelled, just like Joke, a lady reportedly trafficked to Oman, which SaharaReporters reported about in 2020. The family Zaynab was working for at this time was not in Baghdad. She convinced her employer to take her to the placement office in the province where the family was. At the office, Zaynab kept pressuring Ahmed, the agent in charge of the establishment, and her family to help her return. In response to her ailment, the office took her to the hospital where she was reportedly given only Flagyl. Zaynab later escaped and found her way to the placement office in Baghdad, where she made her first stop, however, her lot did not get better. At this time, she began reporting to her family and NGOs trying to help her return that she was being poisoned and that some persons were trying to harvest her kidney. She reported incidents of beating as well. Soon after, she escaped from the office by reportedly scaling its fence. With nowhere to go, Zaynab started roaming the street and was picked up by the police. Reportedly unable to understand her explanations and with no Nigerian embassy in the country, the police put her in a psychiatric hospital. Ahmed told SaharaReporters that Zaynab’s lax attitude to work made her leave her passport at the placement office in the province where she last worked. “She left her passport behind in the office along with her belongings,” Ahmed said. “They are now looking for how to get her passport to her. Meanwhile, she does not know the address of the particular office she left.” While Ahmed claims the agent, who is with her passport cannot track her, Zaynab has been in a hospital in Baghdad known to both Ahmed and her family. According to other girls who worked as home helps in the Middle-East, the passports of the ladies are often withheld until they complete their two-year contract. At some point in her ordeal, Zaynab’s family gave Ahmed N300,000 to purchase a ticket for Zaynab. Unsure if Zaynab would be allowed to leave the country since she ran away from two placement offices and was picked up by the police, the family asked for a refund and Ahmed returned N250,000. He said he had not purchased the ticket at the time the money was requested. When Zaynab would return home remains unsure at this time but Ahmed insists that he has not been paid for his services. These middlemen are paid commissions by the purchasing agents but go-betweens like Ahmed often ask for more. “She worked for the first three months, she gave me N50,000,” he said. “I called the family and told them this was not the agreement I had. “After five months, I was able to collect N100,000 from her and she stopped paying me. “Based on the agreement to collect N50,000 monthly, I should have collected N250,000. I stopped bothering her but I told the family that ‘what goes around comes around’ and that she might need me to stand in for her as her agent.” Zaynab’s sister, Opeyemi, said she was not aware of the deal between Zaynab and Ahmed until Zaynab fell ill. She however said Zaynab expected to work as a nurse and not a domestic servant. “She travelled in February but she told me in August,” Opeyemi said. “I asked her what she went there to do, she said nursing. “After four months, she fell ill and told me to go and meet Ahmed. Ahmed told me that she went there to work as a slave.” While Ahmed mourns the loss of his extra commission, Zaynab remains unsure of her fate. What is certain, however, is that if she survives her ordeal, she will return home from a failed expedition with nothing but scars.