Suspected Fulani herdsmen have reportedly shot a woman, Morenikeji Salami, while going to her site on Oru-Awa Road in the Ijebu-North Local Government Area of Ogun State. The woman’s injuries were captured in a video that went viral on Saturday. File Photo
Google According to Punch, the attackers, numbering about eight, reportedly emerged from the bush, cut off one of her fingers and shattered her jaw with bullets. Salami was said to have run into some herds and attempted to make a quick reverse but was caught and attacked. In the over four-minute clip, the woman was seen being treated in a hospital, writhing in pains as a nurse attended to her. The victim was said to have been taken to a few hospitals, including the state-owned Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital but was rejected. She said she had to travel some distance to the Lagos State Hospital, Ikeja, before she could get treatment. In the video, a female voice was heard asking the daughter of the victim a few questions about the attack. When asked how it happened, she said, “She (my mother) was going to her site in Idofe after a road that leads to Oru along Quarry. She said she saw some cattle while she was driving on the road and as she made a quick attempt to reverse, she was surrounded by some Fulani men who emerged from the bush. "She said they were about eight and the first thing they did was to shoot at all the four tyres and later went to block her car at the front. One of them carried a gun and wanted to shoot her. She begged him but he went ahead and shot her, removing one of her fingers.” She explained that the attacker fired another shot which shattered her mother’s jaw and mouth, adding that the gunman shook her head to check if she had died." She added, “My mother said she pretended as if she had died. One of her fingers was blown away by the bullets. She said she pretended as if she was dead. So, they went back into the bush. She said she managed to get down from the car after waiting for them to go “After she managed to alight from the car, she saw a tipper lorry and flagged it down. The driver rescued her and took her to Oru but she was rejected. We went to the general hospital, she was also rejected. When we got to OSUTH , they also said there was no space.” In the video, the interviewer explained her efforts to get the video across to some aides of the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, and other people she believed mattered. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident, adding that it happened on Monday, January 11. He said three suspects had been arrested, adding that the Fulani herders who committed the crime left their cattle on the spot and fled.