Nigerians are dealings with criminals in power. Our hope has been shattered and murdered by clueless and incompetent leaders. It is crystal clear that General Muhammadu Buhari is a power-drunk dictator whose desperation for power has been shown after several attempts, and when he eventually got ushered to the seat of power, it became very clear that he has not repented from his military cruelty.  Despite the killings and kidnappings going on in the country, the only project General Muhammadu Buhari can embark on is to arrest people for staging peaceful protests. Buhari should know that no amount of brutality, intimidation, harassment and use of excessive force can stop an idea whose has come. You cannot criminalized Omoyele Sowore for his freedom of expression and keep negotiating with Boko Haram and bandits that have killed thousands of people. Sowore has been known as a freedom fighter as far back as military era in the 90s, he never compromised nor did he sell his conscience in exchange for money. His antecedents have earned him recognition throughout the world. General Muhammadu Buhari and his co-travellers are the real conspirators who have been intoxicated by their hold on power. The abnormalities in this government are enormous and well beyond redemption. Seeing Sowore with handcuffs should be a thing of shame and disgrace to a woeful government that sits on the table of negotiation with Boko Haram and bandits who have killed and continue to kill thousands of innocent people. Meanwhile, Maina was part of government officials who ruined the lives of pensioners and siphoned billions of dollars under the pension scheme; he ran out of the country to Niger Republic only to be  brought back to Nigeria with  a private jet full of escorts without handcuffs or sign of brutality despite his criminal records. It is no more a news that Nigeria has become a laughing stock in the eyes of international community, especially with the increase in killings and kidnappings. Muhammadu Buhari regime is no more concerned about protecting lives and properties they sworn to protect. The regime, so incompetent, is only chasing critics and freedom fighters. And if General Muhammadu Buhari thinks criminalising Omoyele Sowore is the only way to silence him, he should be prepared to criminalise all Nigerians. We are tired of his regime of woes, agonies, blood and tears. Enough is enough!