An Oduduwa Republic agitator, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, says some Yoruba leaders have warned President Muhammadu not to order his arrest. Igboho has been in the news recently following an ultimatum he gave to herdsmen in the Ibarapa Local Government Area of Oyo State to leave within seven days, blaming the leadership of the Fulani for being behind the rising insecurity in the state.  Days later, violence erupted in the area during which 11 cars and some other belongings of the Seriki Fulani of Igangan, Alhaji Saliu Abdulkadir, were burnt. Abdulkadir told SaharaReporters that he, his wives and children were sent out of the settlement. The Seriki thereafter fled the community with his family, as rampaging youths set fire to his belongings. Speaking with SaharaReporters, Igboho’s Personal Assistant, Salami Oladapo, said that neither his principal nor his supporters were responsible for the arson. Last Saturday, it was reported that Mohammed Adamu, Inspector General of Police (IGP), had directed Ngozi Onadeko, Oyo Commissioner of Police, to arrest Igboho and transfer him to Abuja. In a trending video, Igboho, while addressing a crowd, said Yoruba leaders were not pleased with the killing of their people by suspected Fulani herdsmen. Speaking in Yoruba, he said, “All our fathers, we thank them, including the Aare Onakakanfo. They have all spoken up. Now that we are here, I beg you in the name of God, I don’t want us to disrespect any of our Yoruba leaders. “You people are just unaware. I swear to God, they are also not happy with what is going on but now they are speaking up and won’t condone what is going on. “Look at all the Yoruba leaders that have spoken up; the way Yoruba people are warning them, that (President Muhammadu) Buhari dares not (arrest me). That now, it is war. If they dare arrest Igboho, it will turn to war. “See the way (Femi) Fani-Kayode has spoken up and he is not joking with what he is saying. They are killing us, kidnapping us, treating us badly in our fatherland.”