The Nigerian government has said it has begun discussions with the People's Republic of China on how to have access to COVID-19 vaccines for Nigeria. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffery Onyeama, stated this on Tuesday in Abuja while briefing newsmen shortly after a bilateral meeting with the Chinese Foreign Minister, Wang Yi. Illustration Yi is in Nigeria on a working visit. Onyeama recalled that China was of immense assistance to Nigeria at the advent of the pandemic, noting that the donation of protective equipment greatly affected the nation in the fight against COVID-19. The minister said that at this point when countries were discovering vaccines and China being one of them, Nigeria was engaging the country in the area of access to the vaccine. “We have received a lot of support from China in the area of personal protective equipment that they were very quick to provide us with and of course, with the vaccine discoveries now. “China is also one of those countries that have been able to discover vaccines for COVID-19, so we are also engaging with China to also help with regards to access to vaccines for our people,” he said. According to Onyeama, the relationship between both countries has dated 50 years, adding that both countries have many areas of cooperation to celebrate. “We also realised that in 2021, we would be celebrating 50 years of diplomatic relations between Nigeria and the People's Republic of China,” he said. Giving insights into some of the deliberations during the closed-door meeting, Onyeama said that he and his counterpart looked at the trade relations between the two countries and areas that could be improved. He said that they also discussed health issues and global pandemics. “In the area of fostering relations, both countries are now considering having a direct flight from Nigeria to China. “We want to establish a direct air link with China. We hope that very soon, a Nigerian carrier would be carrying out scheduled flights to China in the not-too-distant future,” he said.