An agitator for Oodua Republic, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has called on the Nigerian government to evacuate Fulani herders from the South-West to prevent escalation of tension. Igboho disclosed this in a recent video circulating on social media.  He said he was not concerned about Nigeria but about issues pertaining to Oduduwa Nation as he called on other patriots to join in the fight for the liberation of Oduduwa, often used to refer to Yoruba people collectively. Speaking in Yoruba, he said, “I cannot be discussing a country that cheats Yoruba people. We Yoruba should come together as one and send these people parking. No one will do it for us. Our senators are not doing anything. The senators watched herders kill a medical doctor who struggled, studied abroad. They killed a woman who built her own filling station and others. Should that be so?" Igboho said he was certain that Yoruba elders are not happy with the killings, however, he challenged them to do a video pledging their support for the Herder's killings, if otherwise. He said, "I’m sure the Kabiyesi is not happy with the killings, if they are, let them do a video and say so. They are not happy but they can't wear the battle armour to the front, we are the ones that will do it and I know they will support us." He warned of impending doom if the herders do not leave Ibarapa by Friday (January 24, 2020). He said, "Come and take your men away from Ibarapa, we don’t want such visitors. This will be more than #EndSARS. I’m not looking for popularity. I hate cheating. (Chief Obafemi) Awolowo said we would have to deliver ourselves. We are only going to Ibarapa on Friday to congratulate the people on the departure of the herders because they would have gone. They wouldn't want to dare us." He commended the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, on the ultimatum given to herders to vacate the forest reserves in the state. He said, "Ondo State governor did well. He has human feelings. If only other governors will emulate him. That man understands that the same people he is governing over are those being killed. He is a good man." Igboho said the North was simply cheating Yoruba people because according to him, no Yoruba person would go to the North to build a palace and claim to be a 'Seriki' (Chief) of the area. When asked if he feared the actions to be taken by the Nigerian government on the issue, he said he didn't care about what would happen. He however urged President Muhammadu Buhari to relocate Fulani herders in Oyo State to other parts of the country, saying they were no longer needed in the South-West. Meanwhile, the Oyo State Government has commenced an investigation into Igboho’s threat but his supporters have warned against his arrest. The growing insecurity in the South-West has been largely blamed on Fulani herdsmen, many of whom were said to have been using the nomadic nature of the job to kidnap, kill and carry out other criminal activities in forests. They have also had deadly clashes with farmers, who often complain that the herders damage their farms and produce when they graze their cattle there. Governor Akeredolu of Ondo State had in a statement released on Monday announced a ban on movement of cattle within cities and highways, as well as night grazing. He also gave herdsmen seven days to vacate the state forest reserves, where he said some criminals masquerading as herders had been carrying out criminal activities. The statement had read, “We have taken major steps at addressing the root cause of kidnapping, in particular, and other nefarious activities detailed and documented in security reports, the press and debriefings from victims of kidnap cases in Ondo State. “These unfortunate incidents are traceable to the activities of some bad elements masquerading as herdsmen. These felons have turned our forest reserves into hideouts for keeping victims of kidnapping, negotiating for ransoms and carrying out other criminal activities. “As the Chief Law and Security Officer of the State, it is my constitutional obligation to do everything lawful to protect the lives and property of all residents of the state. In light of the foregoing, the following orders are hereby issued: “All Forest Reserves in the state are to be vacated by herdsmen within the next seven days with effect from today, Monday 18th, January, 2021. Night grazing is banned with immediate effect because most farm destruction takes place at night. “Movement of cattle within cities and highways is prohibited. Underage grazing of cattle is outlawed.“In its usual magnanimity, our administration will give a grace period of seven days for those who wish to carry on with their cattle-rearing business to register with appropriate authorities. Our resolution to guarantee safety of lives and property within the state shall remain utmost as security agencies have been directed to enforce the ban.” Akeredolu’s directive was informed by the killings and kidnappings happening in the state, which have largely been blamed on Fulani herdsmen.