Former governor and serving senator, Ibrahim Shekarau, has said there is nothing like zoning in the constitution of the All Progressives Congress, ahead of the 2023 presidential election in the country. Shekarau, the lawmaker representing Kano Central Senatorial District, during an interactive session with journalists in Kano State on Sunday, said zoning was only considered by the Peoples Democratic Party when fishing for presidential candidates. Ibrahim Shekarau Shekarau, who did not speak on which region should produce the president in 2023, affirmed that having power retained by a particular region would not necessarily make it superior or better than others. The senator noted that some persons have been clamouring for zoning even though there is no written agreement on it. He however said the presidential seat should be appropriated based on justice and fairness. He said; “I want to tell you that there is no place in the APC constitution that the issue of zoning is mentioned. I think it is only considered by the Peoples Democratic Party. “For me, I believe in the principle of balance equation and common sense (sic). Although there is no place in our party where zoning is allowed unlike in the PDP where the zoning system is constitutional; ideally, common sense should have guided APC in its selection. “And those who want to kill themselves that one particular region should continue to maintain power should know that that will not make them better than other regions. For instance, in the last eight years, the North has been in power, are we better than other parts of the country? The answer is no.” On his relationship with Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and his predecessor Rabiu Kwakwanso, Shekarau said; “We have been together with Ganduje for so many years when I was a Permanent Secretary, cabinet office, then he was a commissioner. So, we interacted a lot. “I want to assure you that our relationship has been cordial up till now. There is no problem between us. So also, with (Rabiu) Kwankwaso, we have a good relationship. Our political differences will not affect our relationship. I never defected from one party to another because of him. “When I was in the APC, Kwankwaso joined the party, and I left. Not because of him, but (because of) the leadership of the party. The same thing when I was in the PDP, and left, not because he joined the party.”