The students' union body of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, has slammed Rotimi Akeredolu, Ondo State Governor and Nigerian businessman, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, for neglecting victims of a recent truck incident in the state. SaharaReporters had earlier reported how a recent ghastly accident caused by a Dangote truck and a fire outbreak in Akungba community on Saturday resulted in the death of several people, including students of the institution.  In a statement on Tuesday, the body said some of the students involved in the accident were in critical condition and in need medical attention. They also called on Nigerians to help four victims of the recent accident battling for their lives at the hospital. It read, "Following the incidents of the accident that was caused by Dangote truck and the fire outbreak in Akungba community in Ondo State on Saturday 23rd January, 2021, some students have been rushed to the hospital and are in critical condition. "The government and Dangote group of companies have refused to come to the help of four dying students and have neglected them at the Federal Medical Centre, Owo in terms of financing the hospital bills of the victims. "In lieu of this, we're soliciting for the help of Nigerians to raise funds to save the lives of these students. "We need to hit the target of minimum of one million naira within the next 24 hours. Your contribution will definitely go a long way as no amount is too small. Account Number: 0708694484. Account Name: Taiwo Oluwagbogo Joel (Secretary General, AAUASUG); Bank, Access Bank." Eyewitness accounts said that the truck belonging to Dangote company and carrying cement lost control due to its brakes failure and rammed into business centres and shops near the school gate. “The truck which reportedly lost control due to the failure of its brakes was said to be coming from lkare Akoko and while descending the hill a few metres to university gate rammed into the business centres, shops and buildings along the roadside. “lt crushed all the students who were busy at the business centres, the passersby and other shop owners a few metres away from the main gate of the university,” the eyewitness said.