Yoruba freedom fighter and activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has hailed Yoruba leaders for backing his fight against insurgency in the region. Igboho said he is particularly happy that the leaders are making comments at such a critical time when the security of the region has come under threat.  Igboho had been in the news since last week when he gave an ultimatum to killer herdsmen to vacate Ibarapa area in Oyo State. In a viral video on the internet, he was seen commending Yoruba elders for making submissions on the issue. Igboho said, "I want to use this opportunity to thank all the Yoruba elders who supported us both home and abroad: Dele Momodu; former president Segun Obasanjo; former aviation minister, Femi Fani-Fayode; former governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose; all our leaders, Alao Akala; Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka; the Alaafin of Oyo Empire, his imperial Majesty Oba (Dr.) Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III; Oonirisa Adeyeye Ogunwusi; Olubadan of Ibadan, Saliu Adetunji; Awujale of Ijebu Kindgom, Sikiru Adetona; Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akinlolu and Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams. "They have all spoken up, At this stage, do not let us disrespect our leaders in Yorubaland, you might not know, they are not happy with the situation, they are all alert, they have started speaking up, they won't acccept the killing of their own people by Fulani herdsmen. "Look at all the influential Yoruba people who have made submissions that if President Muhammadu Buhari tries anything funny, there will be war. Go and listen to it on radio, they said if Igboho gets arrested, there shall be war." Igboho also said the import of the issue had made some Oduduwa patriots to return home from overseas to join in the fight against banditry in their land. He said, "You came back from South Africa, this my brother came back from London. People are arriving from overseas because this is a serious issue, we are suffering, Fulani herdsmen kidnap and kill us, on our fatherland!" The activist had earlier said he was confident that the monarchs in Yorubaland were solidly behind him.