China has ridiculed the United States on the Internet likening the civil unrest in the country following the invasion of the US Capitol by President Donald Trump's supporters to the violence that occurred in the Hong Kong anti-government protests of 2019. The state media tabloid, Global Times, on Thursday morning tweeted side-by-side photo comparisons of Hong Kong protesters occupying the city’s Legislative Council Complex in July 2019 with Wednesday’s Washington, D. C. riots.  The latter photo showed staunch Trump fans who had invaded the US Capitol to protest the election defeat, taking selfies, wrestling with security and raiding parts of the building. See Also






United States of America
 LIVE: Trump-Biden Transition Updates
0 Comments
5 Hours Ago “@SpeakerPelosi once referred to the Hong Kong riots as ‘a beautiful sight to behold,’” the Global Times said in the tweet, referring to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi’s June 2019 comment about Hong Kong’s mass pro-democracy demonstrations, which were mostly peaceful at that time. “It remains yet to be seen whether she will say the same about the recent developments in Capitol Hill.” China’s Communist Youth League also labelled the chaos as a “beautiful sight” on the Twitter-like Weibo platform. The hashtag “Trump supporters storm US Capitol” pinballed across Weibo on Thursday, racking up 230 million views, as users compared the global support for Hong Kong’s protesters with the outpouring of condemnation for the pro-Trump mob. “At present, all European countries’ leaders have shown double standards and condemned it (Washington rioting),” read one Weibo comment which gained over 5,000 likes. “I don’t know what kind of double-standard reports will be carried by Hong Kong or Taiwan media this time.” “What happened in the Hong Kong Legislative Council last year is being repeated in the US Capitol,” wrote another user in a comment with over 4,500 likes. While the strategies were similar, there are plain differences in the causes and motivations of the invasion of the two legislature buildings. Hong Kong protesters stormed their legislature to demand full democracy and stop an unpopular bill that was being pushed through by the city’s unelected leadership. The semi-autonomous Chinese city is not a democracy, the cause of years of popular protests. China has since responded with a crackdown, imposing a harsh security law on the restless city, arresting scores of critics and oppressing opposition. In contrast, those storming the US Capitol were trying to overturn the results of what has been declared a free and fair presidential election. US President-elect, Joe Biden, said the US rioters were undermining democracy by trying to overturn Trump’s defeat in November’s election.