The Kalasuwe and the Paramount Ruler of Apoi and Ijaw Confederation, Sunday Adejimola Amuseghan, has called for the unconditional release of human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore, without delay. Sowore and other activists were arrested and brutalised last Thursday for organising a candlelight procession on crossover night to usher in the New Year at Gudu junction, Abuja. Sunday Adejimola Amuseghan, Kalasuwe and the Paramount Ruler of Apoi and Ijaw Confederation The Kalasuwe, in a statement signed by the Bamofin of Apoi land, Henry Ogbemerun, on Monday, called out the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration over Sowore's arrest. According to the monarch, Buhari should stop the ceaseless clampdown on human rights activists and focus on the economic, insecurity and COVID-19 challenges confronting the country. He also said the government should focus on diversifying the economy and stop exercising excessive political power and financial recklessness. The statement partly read, "Let the executive, legislative and judicial arms of the government embark on national transformational initiative synergy and let the executive arm of the Federal Government take the needful political will and Executive Orders to address insecurity, economic recession, impending food scarcity, farmers' killings and  kidnapping of people, terrorism, nepotism, favouritism, tribalism, financial and political corruptions, judicial manipulation, bad investment policies, youth unemployment and religious bias in Nigeria. "The Federal Government should not hide under COVID-19 to defend poor performance. Let the government be proactive in tackling our common challenges and be well-focused on our national integrity and economic growth rather than on the witch-hunt of human rights activists thus causing unnecessary distractions. Nigeria belongs to all of us, and we must have a say to make us proud of our fatherland. Let's practise full scale principles of federalism. Sowore is the voice of the voiceless in Nigeria, and he should be set free unconditionally. If the principles of fundamental human rights and true federalism are practised, Nigeria will be great and command respect among the most powerful nations of the world. "Presently, self-identified religion and tribalism are preferred to detribalised agenda and technocratic considerations; the outcome will be political and economic crises. Let's put Nigeria first in the scheme of everything in Nigeria, and let's give our traditional rulers constitutional roles to return Nigeria to its path of glory. We must guide and  provide the needed leadership model to move Nigeria forward."