Ismaila Adeshina, father of 21-year-old Saheed Adesina, who was killed for taking food several times at a christening party, has said the family has moved on and accepted the death in ‘good fate’. SaharaReporters had reported how Saheed was stabbed to death at a party in the Mushin area of Lagos State on December 12, 2020 after the caterer accused him of collecting food for up to three times, while others had yet to be served. Party jollof rice photo used to illustrate story. The allegation reportedly angered some of the party attendants, and it led to a brawl during which the young vulcaniser was killed. Speaking to SaharaReporters, the father of the deceased said the family had written to the police, asking them to release all suspects arrested over the Saheed’s death. He described the late Saheed as a gentle and resourceful man. “It’s not a big deal; we have accepted it as our fate and moved on. The house where it happened and my son was killed is next to where my son was working as a vulcaniser. They were having a party and he went there. He wasn’t dressed well because he went there from work and was wearing the clothes he used on the job. Even the caterers didn’t see him as an important person. So, she accused him of collecting food for up to three times, while others had yet to be served. I heard that the caterer slapped him after that and he punched her,” Ismaila said. “The man who had a child and was having the christening party works in a bank. I was told that some of the bank’s security operatives were at the place. One of them came with a taser which was used on my son. This incapacitated him because he had been sick for some days before the incident. They rushed him to the hospital but he died before they got there. “We initially asked the police to arrest the caterer and others but since the mother of the deceased said she wasn’t interested in any case; I asked the police to release them. We didn’t collect one kobo from anybody, we just accepted our fate. “My son was a gentleman; he was the one taking care of his mother. His mother was sick as well at the time when he was killed. He brought a nurse to be treating her at home, he also bought drugs for her. As we speak, the mother has yet to get over his death.” See Also






News
Lagos Party Attendants Kill Guest For Collecting Food Several Times
0 Comments
2 Weeks Ago According to a police report from the Area D Command, Mushin, the suspects took to their heels after killing Saheed, and the party came to a shocking halt. Following the death, the police had said, "The father of the deceased, one Adeshina Ismaila also of Ojuwoye Street, Mushin, reported to us that his son, Saheed Adeshina, of the same address, went to a naming ceremony. Trouble ensued when he was challenged over the collection of food for more than three times with the caterer. "Suddenly, Saheed Adeshina raised the alarm that he had been stabbed at his testicles. He was later rushed to the Oliyide General Hospital, Mushin, where he was confirmed dead. "The scene was visited by the Divisional Police Officer and a team of detectives. The deceased was taken to the Yaba General Hospital Mortuary for an autopsy, after taking a photograph. The suspects took to their heels after committing the heinous crime. Efforts are ongoing to unravel the mystery surrounding the death and to arrest the fleeing suspects."