No fewer than two people have been killed by Fulani herdsmen in Iganna, Iwajowa Local government area of Oyo State while three others sustained gunshot injuries, a member of the House of Representatives, Shina Peller, has said. Peller is representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency in the state. Shina Peller Peller raised concern over the spate of insecurity in the state, especially in Iwajowa Local Government Area in his constituency. The lawmaker particularly mentioned the Iganna area where kidnappings, killings and robbery cases had been carried out by Fulani herdsmen. Peller who chronicled this in a short message to SaharaReporters said two people were killed while three other people sustained varying degrees of injury within eight days in the local government area. He said, "The insecurity situation in my constituency, particularly at Iganna in the Iwajowa Local Government Area of Oyo State calls for serious concern and prompt action. The rampant cases of kidnapping, killing and robbery by Fulani herdsmen are worrisome. "According to the situation report made available to me, the following ugly occurrences took place within eight days in the Iwajowa Local Government Area. On December 23rd, 2020, one Mrs Adeleke, a widow, narrowly escaped death after being shot at in the evening. "On December 24th, 2020, a pastor, Mr Gbola, was shot dead in the early hours of the day at Abaoloko, Iganna Ilero Road by suspected herdsmen. Same day, one Fulani man named Ibrahim was killed, whilst another man was also reportedly killed at Iwere Ile. "On January 1st, 2021, one Mr Kola, a petrol station manager, was shot at around 7am along Elekokan Iganna via Ofeegun. Similarly, on the same day, one vulcaniser was also shot at near Ofeegun. They are both seriously injured and are receiving treatment as I speak. "We are made to understand that the herdsmen that carry out this act of criminality are not those that live within the community, but outsiders who gain entrance through the forest. "Recall that on Tuesday, we had held a stakeholders’ security meeting to discuss and address the ugly security situation in the local government. "In attendance were the Shabiganna of Iganna, His Royal Highness Oba Azeez Soliu Oyemonla, representatives of the Department of State Services, Nigeria Police Force, Western Nigeria Security Network (Amotekun), Vigilante Group of Nigeria (VGN), local hunters and Fulani people in the vicinity. "We are made to understand that the Fulani herdsmen that carry out this act of criminality are not those that live within the community, but outsiders who gain entrance through the forest. At the meeting, we had reached so many resolutions, one of which is the need to conduct a data collection exercise for all the Fulani people residing in the community for proper identification. To aid this documentation, I volunteered to provide computers to the police who will oversee the exercise. "I'm using this opportunity to call on the relevant security agencies to come to the rescue of my people."