The Oyo State Police Command has said it has commenced investigation into the recent arson attack on the house of the Seriki Fulani of the state, Alhaji Saliu Abdulkadir. It also said it had begun investigating an alleged breach of peace by Chief Sunday Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho, and other youths in Igangan, Ibarapa North Local Government Area of the state.  The command also confirmed on Sunday that nobody was killed in Igangan during the said attack on the community of Abdulkadir. A group of youths on Friday burnt the house and cars of the Seriki Fulani, days after Igboho gave Fulani herdsmen in the area seven days to leave. Though the police did not mention the extent of damage caused by the arson attack and other destruction, they said many properties were destroyed. The state command of the Nigeria Police Force, in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Olugbenga Fadeyi, said the police commissioner, Ngozi Onadeko, wished to keep the public abreast of the security situation in the state, especially regarding Ibarapa and Oke Ogun zones. "Following the fear of threats to public peace, occasioned by the inciting pronouncements of Chief Sunday Adeniyi, aka Sunday Igboho, the Oyo State Police Command jointly with the Operation Burst have embarked on visibility/confidence building patrol of the areas concerned. "Sadly, the relative peace and calmness being enjoyed due to the visibility patrols of the security agencies were truncated by the visit of Sunday Igboho to Igangan, at about 1630hrs on the 22nd January, 2021. The visit had culminated in a mob action by some youths in the town, who, armed with different types of weapons, embarked on arson and a breach of peace. "In the process, grievous hurt was committed against a police officer while he was discharging his statutory duty. It is necessary to state that, in handling the situation, security operatives applied extreme caution to avoid casualty and to avoid the situation from degenerating to a complete breakdown of law and order. "Be that as it may, the Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Police Command will like to appeal for calm. Well-meaning and peace-loving elders in the community are enjoined to caution and advise restive youths to sheath their swords and shun violence in addressing the complex situation at hand. The youths should avoid being used as pawns to ignite ethnic war. At no time has violence been used as a weapon to address security challenges. "It is also necessary to mention that a substantial number of suspects (of different ethnic backgrounds) were arrested in connection with virtually all the cases of kidnapping or assassination which had occurred in the state. Some have been arraigned in the court of law and being remanded in correctional facilities, while investigations are still ongoing in some of the cases. "The Commissioner of Police will like to reiterate that the security agencies will not watch while some criminal elements take the law into their own hands. Investigation into the arson and the breach of the peace which occurred at Igangan will be carried out to a logical conclusion and culprits shall be brought to justice. "Once again, the Commissioner of Police calls for calm and solicits the support of the good people of Oyo State in ensuring that we keep the state safe and secure, please."