The Chief Executive Officer of the recently demolished facility said to be a hotel, Asher Kings and Queens Restaurant in Kaduna State, Aisha Mercy Yakubu, has said it was not true that the facility planned to hold a sex party. Yakubu noted that she planned to seek a legal redress over the demolition of her restaurant, adding that she lost her pregnancy after the demolition news came to her.  In a press statement on Saturday, Yakubu said the demolished facility was neither a hotel nor guest house as claimed by the police and Kaduna State Government.  PHOTONEWS: @GovKaduna State Government Demolishes Hotel Building After Being Announced As Venue For Sex Party pic.twitter.com/xuQiITBdBd  The owner also said property estimated to worth over N32million was lost to the demolition exercise. She said, “The Asher Kings and Queens Restaurant is 34 sitting-capacity-at-a-time restaurant, located at Kachia Road, Sabon Tasha, Kaduna State, registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission, with registration number BN2463851 on December 5, 2016, under the Companies and Allied Matters Act 1990 as Food Production and Processing Services. “The restaurant is a one-storey building structure, with a VIP Lounge section, where premium customers relax to watch football league games in a cozy environment, with all the comfort; air conditioners and light music. Whilst the ground floor is where the kitchen and serving spot is, also with chairs and tables for customers to sit and eat their food as required. “We rent the VIP section for light events, of not more than 26 customers. On the 27th December, 2020, a customer hired the VIP Lounge for a 15-man reunion/clothing line promo, to appreciate his customers for their good patronage of his brands. “Before the event proper commenced, a friend of mine and I noticed an unusual movement around the main gate to the restaurant, as it was half opened to avoid a crowded environment. “We approached the main gate and on getting there, I saw two truckloads of heavily armed officers of the Nigeria Police Force. “I asked the team leader what was going on but he ignored my question and said he would explain to me when we get to the Police Station, Sabon Tasha Division. “When we arrived at the police station, my customer, who accompanied me to the station, enquired what the matter was and the police showed us a poster on a GSM phone belonging to one of the officers by name Inspector Felix. “It was a poster of an event titled; KADUNA SEX PARTY, which the police claimed the venue for the supposed ‘sex party’ was scheduled to hold at my restaurant, even though with no address of where it would take place on the poster. “I denied knowledge of that event as there was nothing of that sort taking place at the restaurant and I wouldn’t stoop so low to entertain such illicit activity at my place, but the police refused to believe me and had my friend and two of my staff members detained for one night, one day, until the customer that had earlier hired the place for usage on that fateful day was also arrested the next day.” She narrated that they were released after paying a “bail fee” of N100,000 to one Inspector Felix and one other female police officer, fair in complexion. “I noticed how incompetent the NPF were, I suggested to them to call the number on the supposed ‘Kaduna Sex Party’ poster, which they immediately put a call through and a name came on, using the True Caller App as Marvellous Akpan. “The police asked me to pay a fee of N20,000 for them to do their job of tracking down the user of the phone number, which I immediately paid them so that they would swing into action. “Marvellous Akpan was arrested the next day. He was interrogated and he admitted to owning the phone number on the poster and printing of the poster which was posted on social media, assisted by a friend of his named Noah and one other guy. “On further interrogation, Mr Marvellous Akpan confessed to the police that he didn’t even know me and had never been to my restaurant nor had any knowledge of its address. He claimed that the poster for the supposed ‘Kaduna Sex Party’ was just a prank! “Mr Chimeze, who had hired the place was released, summarily, after the successful arrest of Mr Akpan. “The next day, 31st December, 2020, while at the other branch of my restaurant, at Court Road, Sabon Tasha, Kaduna, a friend of mine called me and asked me to go to the main restaurant and see what was going on.” She added that she came back and saw a combined team of policemen, soldiers and vigilance groups guarding a pay loader to demolish her restaurant. She said, “No prior notice was served to me before the demolition, there was no any form of communication between I and the Kaduna State Property Development Agency who came to demolish the building structure. “Even when they arrived at the location, the main entrance to the main entrance to the restaurant was under lock. There was no form of communication to me! “I watched them pull down the building without allowing me to remove any item before the demolition. As a result of the trauma, I lost my one-month-old pregnancy. “I also incurred the following losses – cooking utensils, furniture, electric appliances, chillers, deep freezers, Bemarrings outdoor catering utensils. Cash, et al worth over N32 million, as the place was abruptly vandalised after the demolition. “I plan to seek legal redress for defamation of my character and the loss of my properties, in the building, plus other sundry issues as would be advised by my lawyers.”



See Also






Islam
Nigerian State Governor of Kaduna Orders Demolition Of Hotel Proposed For Sex Party
0 Comments
3 Days Ago