The Oyo State Government says Governor Seyi Makinde has never interfered with the contract award process of the Ibadan Urban Flood Management Project (IUMFP), a World Bank-funded project in the state. SaharaReporters had reported how the bank queried the state government on the proposed award of the contract to companies allegedly linked to Makinde and other top government officials. Seyi Makinde Inside sources said the contract process, which was meant to have been concluded by the end of 2020, is being stalled because of the greed of some top government officials in imposing their chosen contenders which is contrary to World Bank's procedures. SaharaReporters gathered that these officials' role in the corrupt contract award poses significant hidden risks for the release of $200 million (N76 billion) financing agreement by the international bank. Reacting in a statement, State Commissioner for Finance, Akinola Ojo, said the government and the World Bank were not at loggerheads over the project, adding that due process is strictly being followed. Ojo also debunked insinuations that the lowest bidder was not being considered for the contract, saying that the lowest bidder is not a guarantee of value for money and capacity to deliver on terms. He said, “The process is still ongoing, and I assure you that when the process is completed, the state will be vindicated. “That someone is the lowest bidder doesn’t guarantee value for money. What we need is good quality work that will enhance the service delivery of IUMFP. "The IUFMP management had independently appointed qualified assessors to review the bids for the second pool of works, with the contractors being assessed and the state only approving the recommendations made by the assessment and thereafter sending them to the World Bank for no objection. “Contrary to the insinuations contained in the recent media reports about the World Bank-sponsored project under the IUMFP, there is no threat whatsoever, as the process is still ongoing. “We are certain that when the process is completed, we will be vindicated.”