Nigerians have taken to the social media to lambast the federal government over the arrest of Salihu Tanko-Yakasai, media aide to the Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje, just a few hours after he criticised the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government. Tanko-Yakasai was reportedly arrested by the Department of State Service's Operatives on Friday evening hours after he called on the Buhari-led government to either deal with bandits in the country or resign.  He had stated this while reacting to the abduction of students at Government Girls Secondary School, Jangebe in Talata Mafara Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Taking to the social media, some Nigerians have condemned his arrest, describing the Buhari-led administration as "undemocratic". Here are reactions from Nigerians below: Twitter user @TheBabaTee wrote, "Dawisu, Director General of Media & Comms for Kano State was bold enough to say APC has failed yesterday morning, by evening, he was abducted by security forces only to be found in DSS office this morning. That should tell you a lot about the dictatorship in Nigeria." Dawisu, Director General of Media & Comms for Kano State was bold enough to say APC has failed yesterday morning.By evening, he was abducted by security forces only to be found in DSS office this morning.That should tell you alot about the dictatorship in Nigeria. https://t.co/W6wkR8kMM9  For social media user @MayUbeku, he is glad that some of Buhari's supporters, including Tanko-Yakasai, are victims of the administration's brutality. He said, "After calling for Buhari's resignation, @dawisu landed in DSS office. I'm glad some of them are experiencing this. They have seen how dictatorial, intolerant and useless the Buhari Admin they support is. Tomorrow, they'll attack both local/foreign media for rating this Admin low." After calling for Buhari's resignation, @dawisu landed in DSS office. I'm glad some of them are experiencing this. They have seen how dictatorial, intolerant and useless the Buhari Admin they support is. Tomorrow, they'll attack both local/foreign media for rating this Admin low.  @gimbakakanda tweeted, "What on earth could've warranted the DSS abducting @dawisu, a government official, in such fashion? Whatever the "threat" he posed, he's a prominent and vocal government aide and there's no justification for such method, which is exactly how we lost the Dadiyatas of this country." What on earth could’ve warranted the DSS abducting @dawisu, a government official, in such fashion? Whatever the “threat” he posed, he’s a prominent and vocal government aide and there’s no justification for such method, which is exactly how we lost the Dadiyatas of this country.  Reacting to the news of the arrest, @timi_wakanda said, "Lol. I'm not surprised; they don't tolerate any form of criticism. Someday most of Buhari's descendants will be recluses, some will change their names, and most of his supporters will deny they ever supported him. His legacy will be that of a Nigerian Dictator." Lol. I’m not surprised, They don’t tolerate any form of criticism. Someday most of Buhari’s descendants will be recluses, some will change their names, and most of his supporters will deny they ever supported him. His legacy will be that of a Nigerian Dictator.  @gabari_maje said, "Apparently, the north is its own greatest enemy; your greed and bigotry is what I don't understand why you should sacrifice your entire well being and peace over Buhari that cares less about the north? Dawisu, as a Nigerian, have every right to criticise Buhari's failure!" Apparently the north is its own greatest enemy your greed and bigotry is what I don’t understand why you should sacrifice your entire well being and peace over buhari that careless about the north ? Dawisu as a Nigerian have every right to criticise Buhari’s failure !!!  @ Sir_Charles_E said it is an abnormal situation. He said, "317 kidnapped, no attempt, assurance of their release or reasonable comments from the FG but attacked Sunday Igboho and arrested Dawisu in 24hrs. This can't be normal." 317 kidnapped, no attempt, assurance of their reduce or reasonable comments form the FG but attacked Sunday Igboho and arrested Dawisu in 24hrs.This can't be normal  Another user, @AbdulMahmud01, expressed dissatisfaction over the arrest of citizens who express their freedom of speech. He wrote, "Police kidnapped @chosensomto from his Abuja home and DSS abducted @dawisu in Kano for exercising free speech. Both in one day. We are in Gulag Buharipelago!" Police kidnapped @chosensomto from his Abuja home and DSS abducted @dawisu in Kano for exercising free speech. Both in one day.We are in Gulag Buharipelago!  @oil_shaeikh said, "The detainment of @dawisu for his concerned comments about the deteriorating security situation is nothing but a further affirmation that the northerners life never matters to @MBuhari govt, at the same time when Sunday Igboho that masterminded northerners killings is shielded." The detainment of @dawisu for his concerned comments about the deteriorating security situation is nothing but a further affirmation that the northerners life never matters to @MBuhari govt, at the same time when Sunday Igboho that masterminded northerners killings is shielded.  @___FAREED said people like Tanko-Yakasai are needed in the country. He said, "Bandits kidnap student; they received huge amounts of money to legitimise their business, goals, and methods. @dawisu speaks the truth and he is now in DSS custody. People like Dawisu are what we need in this country. Ya Allah protects him."