Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions have written their branches to commence industrial action from Friday. A copy of the notice signed by SSANU National President, Mohammed Ibrahim, and NASU General Secretary, Peters Adeyemi, was obtained by our correspondent on Thursday.  The PUNCH reports that the non-teaching staff in the universities had announced that they would embark on a nationwide strike from February 5, 2021 over the Nigerian government’s handling of the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System, sharing formula of the N40 billion earned academic allowances and non-payment of arrears of the new minimum wage. Others are the non-payment of retirement benefits to former members, non-constitution of visitation panels to universities, poor funding of universities, teaching staff usurping the headship of non-teaching units, among others. In a bid to stop the workers from embarking on strike, the Nigerian government met with the leadership of the unions but the meeting ended in a deadlock on Tuesday. The unions said five of its demands had not been attended to by the Nigerian government while committees were only set up to address. The PUNCH learnt that a committee was set up to resolve the dispute over the N40 billion earned allowances and complaints about the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System. Part of the notice read, “In view of the outcome of the meeting, the leadership of JAC of NASU and SSANU at the branches are hereby directed to commence joint general meetings on Friday to give reports on the outcome of the conciliation meeting and pass resolutions on the way forward. “In the meantime, the nationwide strike takes effect from 12 midnight, Friday, February 5, 2021, pending any contrary resolution by the branches.” The committee had embarked on a three-day protest over the government’s failure to honour the Memorandum of Understanding signed with the unions on October 20, 2020.