A nursing mother, Mayowa Elegbede, has alleged assault by thugs sent by the chairperson of Ikotun/Igando Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos State over an unofficial eviction order given to tenants of her newly-acquired house. Elegbede, who is a tenant at 16 Obabiyi street, Igando Road, Ikotun, said tenants got text messages that the house had been sold by the former landlord, Joseph Afore, to the chairperson of Ikotun/Igando LCDA, Morenike Williams (Mama Olowo).  According to her, thugs bombarded the house on Monday and started breaking doors and other parts of the building. The nursing mother said when she challenged the thugs, she was beaten while her baby was on her back. She said though tenants were informed of the acquisition, there was no official eviction notice by any of the parties involved. Elegbede also said the thugs claimed they had registered their intentions at the Idimu Police Station before coming to assault the tenants. She said, "Around 5pm, 8th of February, four men came and they started breaking our doors. I came out to ask them what happened, they said Mrs Williams asked them to come and break everything. I asked them why, they said the woman had bought the house. "They started dragging with me and my 41-day-old baby, my baby was still strapped on my back because we just got back from the clinic. One of them slapped me while another beat me, then I grabbed the collar of one of them. They brought out (a) phone and started videoing me, (saying) they will use it against me at the police station to detain me and my baby at the station. "According to what they said, they reported at Area M police station before coming. They even said that there is a man in our compound that brought a lawyer, that all of us are following the man, that it was because of him we all refused to move out of the house for 5 months, 7 months now. "Our landlord, Joseph Afore only sent us a text message that Williams had bought the house but no one came to meet us and there was no quit notice. They sent us the message in January. We were shocked to see those men on Monday." She said the thugs visited with weapons and also beat up a tenant who was almost killed for recording all that happened. "They injured one young man; neighbours were the ones who carried him away so he escaped. They wanted to kill him. The young man was videoing what they did to us, they wanted to kill him. They hit me with my baby on my back. They came with weapons, they were with Oodua Peoples Congress people."