The Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu has ordered a probe of the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Olanrewaju Akeredolu, for allegedly detaining her half brother, Olupelumi Fagboyegun, for three years Fagboyegun had in a trending video accused the Chief Judge of causing his arrest and detention because he went to their father’s home. Ondo Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. He said, “The Honourable Chief Justice of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I am calling you to please rescue me from the hands of the Ondo State Judiciary that is being run like a family affair that if you don’t know anybody you cannot get justice. “I have been living abroad for the past 30 years, I came on holiday to Nigeria to my father’s house because I share the same father with the Chief Judge of Ondo State. I was arrested at my father’s place. I was locked up, was charged with forceful entry into my father’s house. “Even if I was convicted of this crime, it only carries one year prison penalty but I am being on open remand for the past three years. This case has been going on for the past three years because the Chief Judge is using her power to influence the judicial system. I have been unable to get justice. They have changed judges five times, they have re-arraigned me five times, they have changed their charges five times case and up till today February 15, 2021, that I am talking to you, the case is still pending. Please, come and rescue me. “The Ondo State Government cannot help me because the Ondo State Government is a family business. Buhari, help me from the hands of this woman to go back to my family. I want to go back to my children. I am a single parent. This woman is keeping me here for the past three years for coming to my father’s house. Please, help me, I want to go back to my family.” Reacting to the video, Akeredolu said he had instructed the state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Titiloye Charles, to investigate the allegation. “I have instructed my AG to investigate the allegation. We will ensure the investigation is thorough, fair and transparent," the governor posted on Twitter. In view of this, the AGF in a statement on Tuesday directed the Department of Public Prosecutions to immediately investigate the allegation made against the Chief Judge. “The Attorney General of Ondo State and Commissioner for Justice, Sir Charles Titiloye, has directed the Department of Public Prosecutions to immediately investigate the allegation made against the Chief Judge of Ondo state, Hon. Justice 0. O. Akeredolu, by Mr Olupelumi Fagboyegun (her brother) in a video that went viral on social media platform on the 15th of February, 2015 wherein he alleged that Ondo State judiciary and courts were being used by the Chief Judge to persecute him and keep him in custody for the past three years on trumped-up criminal allegation of unlawful entry into his father’s house. “The Attorney General, Sir Charles Titiloye, noted that the investigation into the matter will be thorough, fair and transparent in order to assure the public that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) administration in Ondo State is determined to preserve the integrity of the courts and the judiciary and ensure that it remains the last hope of the common man. “The Hon. A.G. who assumed office on the 30th November 2020 (two months ago) said his office has yet to be briefed of the criminal case and have directed the Department of Public Prosecution in the Ministry of Justice to investigate the allegation contained in the online video clips and report back to him within 24 hours.”