The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has promised to intervene in the case of two young Nigerian sisters trafficked to Ghana. The girls, Hope Sunday, 18, and Joy Sunday, 15, had earlier cried out for help to return to their home country.  SaharaReporters earlier reported that the girls alleged maltreatment by the woman who trafficked them to Ghana, hence their attempt to return to Nigeria. A human rights activist, Olakunle Peter, told Sahara Reporters that the trafficked sisters said their parents had consented to their emigration because of the parents' inability to continue paying their school fees. A Ghanaian accommodating the young girls, Gideon Nyamedi, said the sisters told him they were enrolled in schools in Nigeria but due to the inability of their mother to continue paying their school fees, they decided to withdraw from school for a while. The young girls also alleged that the woman's daughter was making them work in her bakery and not paying them, even though the agreement was to pay them GHC100.00 (Ghanaian cedis) a month. 



See Also






Ghana
Two Nigerian Sisters Stranded In Ghana, Trafficked Over Parents' Inability To Pay School Fees
0 Comments
1 Day Ago According to them, the woman claimed she was sending the money to their mother in Nigeria but they never believed her. Nyamedi said the girls were willing to return to their home country. Speaking with SaharaReporters on Friday, the Director of Investigation and Monitoring, Josiah Emerole, said the body would investigate the matter by reaching out to the parents in Nigeria. Emerole said the agency would thereafter contact the children with the aid of foreign collaborators such as the Nigerian Embassy in Ghana. He said, “When we get reports such as this, our business is to reach the parents of these trafficked children to interview them to understand properly what happened, how did they get to this place, and then we reach out to our international partners, including the Nigerian Embassy in Ghana to reach where the girls are to be able to rescue them. “All we need is proper details of what happened for us to be able to move in. It is only if we can get the contacts of these children that we can know what's going on and follow it up from there.”