Nigerians have taken to the social media to mock their government for offering to support Mozambique in its fight against Islamist insurgents in the gas-rich northern province of Cabo Delgado. SaharaReporters had reported that the country's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, who visited Mozambique over the weekend and claimed Nigeria was ready to share its experience of fighting Islamist militants and provide support to Mozambique. Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari
REUTERS/SHANNON STAPLETON More than 2,000 people have been killed and more than 500,000 others displaced in the violence, according to the International Committee of the Red Cross. But observers have criticised this step by the government with questions bordering on if the government of Nigeria is eligible to offer such support with the high rate of insurgency in the country. Twitter user, Osarenkhoe Brown @broyobrown said, "Joke of the century. Can the blind lead the blind except they both fall into a pit?" Odirah Chinedum @chineduodira tweeted, "A man whose house is on fire, is offering to assist another, whose home is threatened by rats." Other social media users described it as a joke, backing it with scriptural references. Olusegun @Olusegun_saint wrote, "A huge joke. I am sure Mozambique is laughing their heads off. The Bible says for you to remove the fig in your brother's eyes, first remove that in your own eye so you can see clearly to remove the one in your brother's eye.. What we know to do best is embarrass ourselves." Azuka Emmanuel @AzukaEmmanuel3 said, "The holy scripture said a man should first remove the beam in his eyes so that he can see properly to remove the mote in another man's eye. Let's solve our problem first and we can use the knowledge & experience gained to help others solve theirs." MK @Mikkyflame opined that the government had better solve the minor and major insecurity problems in the country first before embarking on such projects. "The Nigerian government is a joke. First tackle kidnappers and herdsmen, then Boko Haram." Asido Effa @AsidoEffa quipped, "What help can Nigeria offer Mozambique? Help on how to prolong an insurgency? Please let’s be serious." Another Twitter user, Yinka Afe @YinkaAfe, wrote, "Like they're fighting it on their own land. Toothless bulldog!" Iyere Ehinome @EhinomeIyere said, "You have not been able to eliminate the snake in your house that poses a grave threat to your household but want to go to your neighbour's residence to help kill its own snake threatening its own household. It is crazy. Terrorists are killing innocent Nigerians." According to the Global Terrorism Index 2020, Nigeria is one of the ten countries most impacted by terrorism. Indeed, Nigeria is the third country most impacted by terrorism. Boko Haram, Nigeria’s deadliest terrorist group, has been responsible for the killing of thousands of Nigerians and the displacement of many others. At least 36,000 people are said to have been killed and 2 million displaced since Boko Haram launched its jihadi insurgency in northeast Nigeria in 2009.