The Paramount Ruler of Iwoland, Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, has urged Yoruba agitators and freedom fighters to commit their energy towards ending ritual killings consuming innocent sons and daughters of Yoruba in their thousands rather than attacking Fulani herdsmen. The monarch urged agitators to be more interested in probing crimes and not attacking ethnic groups.  He, however, condemned the kidnapping, raping, and killing by some herders across the region. Oluwo said no one can account for the number of lives lost to ritual per day, saying it will amount to disservice if such could not be addressed by Yoruba activists. He said, “No crime is good but there are more ritual killings in the South. It consumes an unaccountable number of our sons and daughters every day. “Only a few are reported while many were not caught. Yorubas should dissipate more energy in checkmating ritual killers and openly protest against them.  Someone's son and daughter are being killed by ritualists at the moment. There is a baby-making factory in the South.  When are we protesting against that?” Oba Akanbi claimed he is a preacher of peace and a united Nigeria, describing ethnicity as “ungodly and enemy of humanity”. He said, "I stand on the path of peace and to me, that is the path of honor. Nigeria's ethnic diversity is too fragile to be drumming ethnic war. I remain an unrepentant preacher of peace and a one, united Nigeria. "Ethnicity is Ungodly. No faith preaches attack on all because of the crime committed by the few. Prosecute the criminals and probe crimes, not the tribe. Nigeria is a nation of ethnic diversities. Peace and unity are our strengths, not war. I never regret beating the drum of peace. We should rather hang on Fulanis to produce the bad eggs among them and not a total condemnation of the tribe. Even if it is the Igbo tribe that is being persecuted because of the bad few, I will stand to defend the good ones among them. "Yoruba race is one of the best with rich cultural value. I love her people. I've never sold even a plot of my subjects' land or anything from them since enthronement. Even, my salary is dedicated to the poor in my hometown. For what gain and purpose will I now mislead or sell them out? Never. What I preach is peace and truthfulness. The path to peace is to prosecute individual crimes and not their tribe. I stand on this and will keep repeating it.” He further called on the government to ensure quality formal education and enlightenment on modern ranching for Fulani children.