Nigeria has become a Fulani leper colony. With the history of violent savagery nature of Fulanis, their crudity, cruelty, wickedness, and sadism, Fulanis should be cut off from the rest of the civilized world. From General Muhammadu Buhari to Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, all Fulanis should be isolated from having any contact with Yorubas. They should be exiled into life-long quarantine.  Times without number, Fulanis have proven that they are savages and dangerous animals that should have nothing to do with civilized human beings. They have demonstrated beyond belief that they are animals defined by crude existence. How can one explain the killing spree unleashed by Fulani herdsmen terrorists on Yorubas? How can one defend and justify rape, robbery, maim, and killing of our people and destruction of their livelihood by Fulanis? Gumi, one of the Fulani carnivores, castigated agitators for Oduduwa and Biafra republics. The fickle play ground bully in his diatribe said: “They’re no more different from these herdsmen. These people agitating for Oduduwa, Biafra or Arewa are all the same group of people with Boko Haram.” Spewing from his mouth, his nostrils, and his eyes, Gumi said: “What we expect is for Yoruba leaders and Igbo leaders to take care of their miscreants as we are handling herdsmen and Boko Haram which are miscreants in the north... Only the miscreants are fueling this.” The intellectually disabled Islamic cleric, is too daft and too primitive to understand that people fighting for self-determination are neither “miscreants” nor terrorists. The difference is clear. We know the terrorists. We know the miscreants. The Fulanis. Gumi’s statement portrays him as a useless, nonsense-spewing idiot. Gumi is a tempestuous, narcissist, bigoted self-centered man-child tribalist. Known for his babbling, yammering, claptrap, mumbo jumbo, Gumi represents Fulani chowderheads ruling Nigeria. Gumi is a definition of assault on reason and civilization. Each time he opens his virus infected mouth, Gumi gives us a tour of the background of Nigeria’s idiotocracy powered by people like Gumi the jackass, nincompoop. By his statement, Gumi just made a compelling reason for agitators of Oduduwa and Biafra republics. To hell with Gumi the douchebag head!