Two alleged gay men in a yet-to-be-ascertained area of Delta State have said they had sexual intercourse for more than two hours while pleading with some vigilantes who sprang on them. The two men in a viral video, which surfaced on Wednesday, were believed to have been caught by the vigilantes, as they appeared half-naked in the clip recorded at night and looked rough, suggesting they had received some form of beating Zipo.co.ke While being questioned and harassed by the angry vigilantes, the two men struggled to find their voices and convince the vigilantes to let them go. They spoke in Pidgin English. One of them, who identified himself as Ogheneruno, said, “I had sex him three times. He asked me to use a condom also. I warned him that I was not doing but he controlled me that I must come to his place. “We had sex in the sitting room. I had sex with him for more than two hours. It was a business we had together. He was to pay me N3, 000 and he lured me to come and collect the money in his house.” The other alleged gay man was quieter in most of the video. “He said I would go to Europe and enjoy a better life. He said we would run to Morocco and from Morocco enter Europe,” Ogheneruno continued. It was not clear whether the vigilantes let them go or handed them over to the police. On February 9, United States President Joe Biden had issued a presidential memorandum aimed at expanding protection of the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer, and intersex people worldwide, including potentially through the use of financial sanctions. Despite international pressure, ex-President Goodluck Jonathan signed the Same-Sex Marriage (Prohibition) Act in January 2014, prescribing between 10 and 14 years in prison for cohabitation between same-sex sexual partners, public show of same-sex relationship, registration, operation, or participation in gay clubs, societies, and organisation, amongst others. However, the Biden Presidency has threatened “swift and meaningful” responses, including financial sanctions against countries found guilty of human rights abuses of LGBTQI+ persons. This is not the first time gay men would be caught and mobbed in parts of Nigeria, going by the public resentment against such folks. On April 21, 2020, two gay men were caught red-handed and paraded in Umueze, Orlu in Imo State, by residents. The two gays also recorded in a video were caught in a popular college in the state and two condoms were recovered from them. Also in May 2020, two gay men were caught in Enugu State, with one of them confessing to belong to the music group of a church.