Reactions have continued to trail the shutting down of the first LGBTQI+ office in Ghana weeks after it opened. The centre, which was officially opened on January 31, 2021, is described as a safe space for members of the Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Queer Intersexual, Asexual community in the country.  Shortly after it was opened, it was gathered that religious groups, politicians, and anti-gay rights organisations called on the government to shut down the centre, and arrest and prosecute those involved. The development, according to reports has led to the closure of the office. But in an interview with the Director of LGBT+ Rights Ghana, Alex Kofi Donkor, he said the anti-gay outcry led to the temporary closure of the centre to protect its staff and visitors. Donkor, who hosted the centre’s launch, attended by European and Australian diplomats, said the community never expected the uproar. "We expected some homophobic organisations would use the opportunity to exploit the situation and stoke tension against the community, but the anti-gay hateful reaction has been unprecedented," he said. Ghana has not prosecuted anyone for same-sex relations in years, but LGBT+ people face frequent abuse and discrimination, including blackmail and attacks, human rights researchers say. Donkor said the anti-gay rhetoric was "scary" and he could not risk the safety of people at the centre, which offers paralegal services, counselling, and training through workshops, even though its location had not been made public. Several groups and persons in Ghana have kicked against the existence of the centre in the past few weeks. The National Coalition for Proper Sexual Rights and Family Values, which brings together Christian, Muslim and traditional leaders opposed to LGBT+ rights, reportedly sought the shutdown of the centre, along with prominent church groups. In a statement issued by the Ghana Catholic Bishops’ Conference (GCBC), the Secretary, Most Reverend Philip Naameh, said, “We, the Catholic Bishops of Ghana, write to condemn all those who support the practice of homosexuality in Ghana. We also write to support the position of Lawyer Moses Foh-Amoaning and the Coalition who for years have been championing the crusade against homosexuality. We also commend other individuals who have spoken in condemnation of this practice. We do this because the Roman Catholic Church is opposed to this abominable practice.” Describing homosexuality as “being incompatible with the creation”, they, however, said the rights of homosexuals as persons should be respected. “Homosexuals should enjoy the same fundamental human rights that all people enjoy. But what are these human rights? By human rights, we mean the universal, inviolable, and inalienable rights that are due to the human person as a rational being possessing a free will. Human rights protect, or are intended to protect the dignity of the human person against the State and Society. “...Nevertheless, according to the Church’s understanding of human rights, the rights of homosexuals as persons do not include the right of a man to marry a man or of a woman to marry a woman. For the Church, this is morally wrong and goes against God’s purpose for marriage. “We should point out that European Court for Human Rights has ruled that same-sex “marriages” are not considered a human right, making it clear that homosexual partnerships do not in fact equal marriages between a man and a woman. The ruling was announced on 9 June 2016 in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France. In the light of the foregoing, we call upon the President of the Republic and Parliament to state unambiguously their position on the matter of homosexuality and its practice in Ghana. “We also call on the Government of Ghana to close down the LGBTQI office space that was recently opened in Accra. Finally, we also urge the Executive and the Legislature never to be cowed down or to succumb to the pressure to legalise the rights of LGBTQIs in Ghana. God bless our homeland Ghana and make our nation great and strong!” A member of the communications team of the ruling New Patriotic Party, Eric Addo-Danquah, called on the public to find the centre and shut it down if the police fail to close it down. “I’m yet to see where in the lowest category of animals, a male mates a male…If the police fail to locate and close it down, Ghanaians should locate the office and close it down ourselves. They say they have their right to misbehave in our country so we also have our right to go and close their office down,” he said. Ghana's Information Minister-designate, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah, proposed legislation against the advocacy of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual Transgender, and Queer Intersex (LGBTQI) activities. According to him, given the current advocacy around the legalisation of homosexuality in the country, the country needs to consider passing a law on it. The European Union last week posted on Twitter that its delegates attended the opening and that "equality, tolerance, and respect for each other are core values of the EU". The tweet read, “A couple of weeks ago the EU in Ghana participated in the opening of the new community space of the @LGBTRightsGhana. "Equality, tolerance, and respect for each other are core values of the EU. The EU supports civil society organisations promoting #LGBTIQ rights.” Dunkor said he was not sure when the centre would reopen but the group would continue to battle against homophobia. "There is nothing illegal about the centre. The idea is to create a safe space for the LGBT+ community," he said. "We will not give up this fight. We cannot give up on our human rights." Many supporters of the community in Ghana have taken to social media to express their displeasure over the closing of the LGBTQIA+ centre. Twitter user, Potato Stan @LazarusKumi wrote, “People thought Ghana’s president was progressive because he talks like he’s on Club House. The way he and Ghana have handled this LGBTQ situation is unforgivable. The Ghanaians turning a blind eye to the situation are a disgrace too. Come 6th March you can’t say you’re for Ghana if you’re not for ALL Ghanaians.” For Edd @Cantelllnow, homosexuals are not terrorists nor criminals and should be treated better. He tweeted, “They approached the issue with hate and stigma. Thinking it's the right way to go. Forgetting that these people aren't criminals nor terrorists. This is a very delicate matter handled without care.” One of the support centres for LGBT persona in Ghana @lgbtqiaghana wrote, “We are also human beings just like the rest of the Ghanaian populace and should be allowed to love and be in a relationship with any other person irrespective of the gender. “These associations and organisations are created for us as a safe space from some of you and also help people who are finding it difficult with their identity. They allege that those who identify as LGBT+ persons in Ghana suffer beating, blackmail, expulsion from school, loss of employment, homelessness, unmet health needs, extortion, among others. Taking to her Twitter handle, @JustDerby wrote a thread of happenings in the LGBTQI+ persons in Ghana. She said, “The LGBTQI+ Community in Ghana is experiencing heightened human rights violations predominantly incited by religious leaders and politicians, amplified by the media and sanctioned by the state. “LGBTQI people in Ghana are forced to live under dehumanising conditions which were exacerbated by the Covid pandemic. Queer and trans Ghanaians are often unable to access healthcare, housing, safety, and legal protection. “Since the pandemic began, many queer and trans Ghanaians are trapped at home with homophobic friends and relatives. Those who are able to afford to live on their own often face discrimination by landlords when trying to rent homes. Others sometimes have their property destroyed. “The community centre that was set up by @LGBTRightsGhana to provide temporary shelter to Ghanaians who have been displaced as a result of the pervasive homophobia in Ghana, and also to act as a resource centre for the community has been invaded by the National Security. “Religious bodies & politicians continue to dehumanise queer & trans Ghanaians and incite fear and hatred into the minds of the good people of Ghana. The media amplifies this crisis by spreading lies & misinformation about the community as they platform anti-human rights groups. “Queer & trans Ghanaians are stripped of their humanity by religious leaders, the media, and the state. Queer and trans Ghanaians are being blackmailed, receiving death threats online from strangers & still have to contend with homophobic remarks from family members and colleagues. “This is a human rights crisis we are experiencing as a section of the population backed by the state, religious leaders and the media relentlessly wage war against a marginalised community in the country.” The closure of the centre has continued to ignite heated controversies with several Ghanaians continue to express mixed views over the issue. Some of those in support of the anti-gay campaigns said Ghanaians should not accept what they referred to as 'Westernisation'. For instance, @NeeOkine699 wrote, “Are you seriously serious? From nowhere, no approval, no form of authority for this so-called office then you just go and open, and you want people to sit idle and watch, did you even consider what will happen before building the office?” @FNyamekye said, "We won't grant you that access to have your way with illegality as Ghanaians and we're not listening to any interventions from organisations to tolerate LGBTQI in our country. We won't attack you for your illegality but you'll be arrested and prosecuted by the law." @kofiasamoah1994 said,  "No LGBT nonsense in Ghana. Why don't you go to Saudi Arabia and practice it? Nonsense again." @KofiEkyirKwakoh said, "What do our laws say? Do you think the Americans will accept certain cultures because they are accepted in the African constitution? If so then we should scrap our dead constitutions and go for theirs. Why do you guys always think everything Western is perfect for Africa?"