The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) has said the body does not get involved in the personal battles of its members. The body spoke with SaharaReporters on Monday while reacting to the allegations of sexual misconduct against the General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries, Apostle Johnson Suleman.  A former pastor of the church, Mike Davids, had alleged that Apostle Suleman slept with his wife, Faith Edeko, who currently heads an Abuja branch of the church. The development had continued to stir heated controversies with many Nigerians calling on relevant authorities to ensure that the matter is properly investigated. But when asked about the action the PFN has taken on the matter, its National Publicity Secretary, Bishop Emmah Isong, said it is not the organisation's responsibility to address personal issues of such.  



See Also






Christianity
Sex Scandal: Pastor Adeboye Fails To Honour Invitation To Speak At Apostle Suleman’s Church Programme
0 Comments
1 Day Ago He said: "We don't want to get involved in personal battles. I don't know if you remember Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo's case, our position on it is, people should allow individual churches, the board of trustees of these churches, to come out of their murky waters. It is until then that PFN will make official statements.” He described the body as only a fellowship of churches, which has no control over the personal affairs of churches. “It's a personal battle, we don't make official statements on people's burdens. We are like a body of fellowships; we don't control churches and we don't rule on what happens to them. Their lawyers and board of trustees should battle that and I think they are already doing that,” Isong added. The sex scandal came to light when Davids took to social media to accuse Apostle Suleman of threat to life and preventing him from seeing his three children. He said he met Apostle Suleman in 2003 while he was in school. Davids also said they became very close and he was eventually ordained a pastor of Omega Fire Ministries on June 9, 2006 by Apostle Suleman and served the church for over 15 years before his exit in 2019. Apostle Suleman had been in the news before now over similar allegations bordering on sexual misconduct.