The Yoruba Nation Now (YNN) movement has called for the urgent eviction of killer herdsmen from the South-West region following their atrocities, including incessant abductions and killings. The movement also appealed to all Yoruba people to protect themselves against any terror group perpetrating violence in the region.  The YNN movement went further to threaten that heads of security agencies protecting the murderous killer herders and providing coverage for them would be held accountable and responsible for all human rights violations under their watch at the International Criminal Court (ICC). In a statement signed by its spokesperson, Dr. Ola Ajanlekoko, the group noted that the recent happenings in states like Oyo, Ogun and Ondo cannot be overlooked as it urged the Nigerian government and security agencies to rise up to the task in protecting the lives and property of the people. "It is no more news that the security situation in Yorubaland is precarious, dangerous and perilous. "Our intention is to flush out any individuals, tribes, groups, associations and movements that are involved in crimes against humanity. "With regards to the ongoing Fulani herdsmen’s killing spree and massacre all over Yorubaland, YNN will neither negotiate nor enter into any bargain on the safety of Yoruba Indigenes,” the movement said. YNN posited that while the killings by suspected herdsmen could be “premeditated, planned, and intended to wipe the Yoruba out of existence,” Yoruba people must individually and collectively join hands to “openly condemn the genocidal tendencies of the Fulani foot soldiers; supported by the Federal Government in massacring our people”. The movement advised Yoruba people to be vigilant and involved in protecting the region from killer herdsmen. "Situations in Nigeria are so bad that there is a mass exodus of Yoruba youths to different parts of the world. "Be vigilant in your environment and within your surroundings. "Yorubas should be proactive and be fully involved in stopping the criminal activities being perpetrated by Fulani foot soldiers, within our communities, highways and forests,” the movement added.