A former spokesman for former President Goodluck Jonathan, Mr Reno Omokri, has said if the soldiers, artillery and helicopter gunships deployed to Orlu in Imo State against the Eastern Security Network were in Zamfara, the abduction in Jangebe would not have taken place. Omokri also wondered, in a series of tweets on Friday, why there were police checkpoints every five minutes in the South-East but none in the North-West which is the one of the critical zones of insecurity.  “If the soldiers, artillery, and helicopter gunships sent by @MBuhari to terrorise Orlu, had been in Zamfara, where they are really needed, the #JangebeGirls wouldn’t have been abducted. SE is peaceful. Yet, there are more checkpoints there, than in the NE/NW,” he stated on Twitter. “Sheikh Gumi says he will update the media on #JangebeGirls abduction. How come Gumi immediately turns up after abductions by bandits? Are they a tag team? Are they partners? I find it strange that they abduct and next thing is that Gumi turns their spokesman! “You can’t travel 5 miles in the SE without encountering checkpoints. Imagine if this was the case in the NW. The #JangebeGirls would have been safe. @MBuhari is more committed to punishing the 5% that did not vote for him, than in protecting the 97% that did.” Sheikh Gumi says he will update the media on #JangebeGirls abduction. How come Gumi immediately turns up after abductions by bandits? Are they a tag team? Are they partners? I find it strange that they abduct and next thing is that Gumi turns their spokesman!#RescueJangebeGirls  Omokri added that since Zamfara pioneered amnesty for bandits, there ought not to be attacks. “Zamfara pioneered amnesty for bandits. If amnesty works, the #JangebeGirls would never have been abducted. The fact of their abduction is proof that amnesty for bandits does not work. Those who brought them from Mali to fight @GEJonathan should deal with them,” he added. Gunmen kidnapped an unspecified number of schoolgirls at the Government Girls Secondary School, Jangebe in the Talata Mafara Local Government area of Zamfara State. The gunmen, believed to be bandits, attacked the school on Friday morning. The gunmen were said to have arrived at the school around 1am and loaded the girls in buses. A resident in Kawaye village identified as Seidu Muhammadu who confirmed the development to SaharaReporters said his daughters, Mansura and Sakina were among those abducted. "I'm on my way to Jangebe now to see the situation myself. I was told they invaded the school around 1 am," he said. The police recently announced that 317 schoolgirls were kidnapped during the attack.