An activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has described the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, as ‘the father of all Yoruba indigenes’. Igboho had while taking part in a virtual town hall meeting on Wednesday accused Ogunwusi of not telling President Muhammadu Buhari about the travails of Yoruba people during their last meeting in Abuja. Sunday Igboho He described the monarch; former governor of Lagos, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde; and Oluwo of Iwo, Abdulrasheed Akanbi, as Fulani slaves. He claimed he would attack Ogunwusi’s home if the monarch failed to support him, which generated furore on social media. He was criticised by many Yoruba people who had been supporting his agitation. Reacting, Ogunwusi in a statement by his spokesman, Moses Olafare, said no true Yoruba son or daughter would speak like Igboho, noting that his conduct and attitude cast doubt on his true intention in his “self-saddled responsibility of defending the Yorubas.” The Ooni’s spokesman said Igboho was going overboard in his conduct and that he should not believe that he was bigger than the authorities. Olafare also said Ooni was unperturbed by the activist's abusive and derogatory words against him. But Igboho, in a statement made available by his media aide, Dapo Salami, on Friday, said there was no misunderstanding between him and the first-class traditional ruler. He added that Ogunwusi had done a lot in promoting peace and progress in the South-West region of the country. The statement read, “Chief Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has declared that the Ooni of Ife, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja 1 is a traditional ruler he holds in high esteem. “Igboho also averred that nobody must try to insinuate otherwise or that he, Sunday Igboho, has any rift with the Ooni of Ife.” According to the statement, Ooni of Ife is not only his father but also the father of all Yoruba people so there is no misunderstanding between Igboho and the first-class traditional ruler. “The Ooni of Ife, His Imperial Majesty, is a great leader that has tried it a lot in promoting peace and progress in the South-West region of the country. “There is no cause for any rift between me and my father. Members of the public should stop crying wolf where there is none. “All of us know what is going on in Yorubaland. We are all stakeholders in this struggle. We cannot look on while Fulani herdsmen will constitute themself as threats to our lives. What I am saying is that I don't have any issue with my father, the Ooni of Ife. He remains my father any day,” Igboho said. Igboho also thanked all Yoruba leaders for their “support in making sure that Yoruba land is peaceful”.