A vigilante group in Igbaja community, a town in the Ifelodun Local Government Area of Kwara State, has said cattle reared by Fulani herdsmen in the community ate up their crops ready to be harvested. In a video obtained by SaharaReporters, a member of the vigilante group said this constant loss had jacked up the price of food items and worsened food insecurity in the region.  He called on the Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazak, President Muhammadu Buhari and well-meaning Nigerians to rise and save the people from Fulani herdsmen. He said, "Can you see how they destroyed our farm? Please, deliver us Nigerians. Don't look on while the Fulani generation (Bororo) take away our means of livelihood. Please have mercy on us. See how they destroyed our farms, please help us. Please, Kwara State Government, help us. The local vigilante arrested them yesterday. They have destroyed our farms, a "paint" of garri is now N400; a bag of yam flour is not affordable. "Buhari, can you see this? Abdulrahman Abdulrazak, can you see how they have destroyed our farms? It happened around 7pm yesterday. We pursued them from Ijora Esin to Kutu, till we caught them at midnight. All that we planned to eat, they have destroyed it. Please save us."



See Also






Insecurity
Group To Sarkin Fulani: We Will Evict You If You Cause Trouble In Kwara State
0 Comments
3 Days Ago In a similar video, residents of Igbaja were seen in their numbers chanting, "We don't want Bororo (Fulani herdsmen) in our community anymore". They held tree branches while marching towards the venue of a meeting held by community elders. The community's monarch was seen addressing the people while promising an end to Fulani herdsmen menace in the community. He said, "In the name of Kabiyesi, Elesie of Igbaja, the King of Ifelodun, I greet you all. Because of this same issue (herdsmen-farmers conflict), we have gathered here today seeking solutions to the problems. We don't want them too. We are working towards what you want."