Nigerians have expressed anger and disappointment at the attempt by policemen and Department of State Service operatives to arrest Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, otherwise known as Sunday Igboho, saying the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government should be sacked. On social media, Nigerians lamented that security operatives who should focus their attention on marauding Fulani killers and bandits were wasting time and resources on innocent and harmless citizens and agitators.  A team of policemen, soldiers and DSS had attempted on Friday to arrest Igboho, along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The arrest, which resulted in pandemonium in the area, was unsuccessful as angry youths and supporters of Igboho resisted the security operatives. Nigerians on Twitter have expressed several angry reactions. For instance, Rothschild (@timi_wakanda) said, “How can the Government turn a blind eye to marauding Fulani invaders destroying lives and properties, bandits kidnapping student daily and be looking to arrest someone who defend their ancestral land? This Government has an agenda and it’s time we prepare for war.” Apostle Arinze Nonso (@ApostleNonso) said, “In a sane country, Buhari would have been impeached. He has failed in every area of lives. Economy is in shambles, security is terrible. GMB is clueless & have nothing more to offer rather things will get worse. Sunday Igboho, banditry, killer herdsmenism, etc., are as a result Buhari failures.” Idowu @KingBelloIII1 said, “Trust me, na still Yoruba personnel go lead such attempt. Because Yoruba people snitch on each other. Am a Yoruba man to the core, but truth is, we are stinkingly sellouts. Some of us though! Honestly, I hate Yorubas who hate guys like Sunday Igboho. Simple!” Boda Funsho @FoOjo5 said, “Better go and find solution to the bandits and insecurity in your house before them enter your house and carry you go.” Earlier, a former aviation minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, had also tweeted about the incident, saying, “I just spoke to my brother Sunday Igboho. He told me there was a violent attempt to arrest him this afternoon by a joint team of soldiers, DSS operatives & policemen numbering about 40 on the Ibadan/Lagos Expressway whilst he was on his way to see Baba Ayo Adebanjo in Lagos. “I condemn this attempt to ambush& abduct him. It is not only reckless but also very dangerous. If the security agencies want to see him all they need to do is to invite him to their office. I am not aware of any crime that he has committed & I urge restraint on all sides. “Let me also send a warning to the FG that Sunday Igboho is a hero to millions of Yorubas & either killing him or detaining him unlawfully would be the biggest mistake they could make. Building bridges, dialogue& peace is better than violence & war. A word is enough for the wise.” Igboho had in January given Fulani herdsmen in Ibarapa area of Oyo State seven days to vacate the area, blaming the leadership of the Fulani for being behind the rising insecurity in the state.