An associate of Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State on Tuesday said though the coast was not clear for the governor to move to the African Democratic Congress, there was a possibility for the governor to consider the option soon. There have been speculations that Makinde could leave the Peoples Democratic Party, which became stronger after he exited from a WhatsApp platform for PDP chieftains in the state because he was challenged by the state’s publicity secretary of the party, Akeem Olatunji, to do something about insecurity in the state.  An online medium on Monday reported that Governor Makinde had concluded plans to dump his party for the ADC ahead of 2023 elections. The medium said Makinde would leave the PDP ahead of the next general elections due to some disagreements between him and some chieftains of the party. It was reported that Makinde would join the ADC immediately after the forthcoming local government elections in the state. But Mr. Taiwo Adisa, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, in a swift reaction, described the story as “a concocted falsehood from purveyors of fake news, who are bent on maligning the governor at all cost”. Adisa said contrary to the report, Makinde had no plan to join another party. According to him, the governor has remained a strong pillar of the party for many years and is already leading the mission for its resurgence in the South-West. Adisa alleged that the report in question raised all the red flags of fake news, as it was based on unverifiable claims from an unnamed source, adding that if the journalist and the editors of the medium had done due diligence, such falsehood would not have found its way into the public sphere. The media aide added that an attempt to launch the concocted story shortly after some media outfits had tried to exaggerate the governor’s exit from a WhatsApp platform that purportedly belongs to the PDP, is negatively ingenious.



See Also






Politics
PDP WhatsApp Platform: Makinde Has Right To Join, Exit Any Social Media Group –Media Aide
0 Comments
1 Day Ago He described the publication as a clear signal that the war being waged against the Makinde administration through alleged fake news was showing no sign of abating. However, a close associate of the governor in Ibadan said the rumour had an element of truth in it. The source said the governor did not only have problems with the party structure in his state but in the whole South-West region. "It is true Makinde may drop PDP but it is not certain. It is all politics and in politics, nothing is impossible. There are some people working against him in the South-West and as a leader of the party, he cannot allow anybody to rubbish him. "People love him in the state and he can win anytime any day. Even those fighting against him are benefiting from him. There are people who are interested in sharing the commonwealth of the state, rather than supporting him. But as 'Omoluabi' (a person of good character), Makinde cannot do that. If they take the party away from him, it is simply a means of destroying the party in Oyo State."