A senator belonging to the All Progressives Congress in Niger State has expressed his anger at the President Muhammadu Buhari government, saying it lacks the required competence to deal with the insecurity in the country which has led to countless killings and abductions, including the latest episode at the Government Science College, Kagara, Niger State. The senator, Mohammed Enagi (APC-Niger South), on Wednesday described as unacceptable, the worsening state of insecurity in the country, saying every part of the state is unsafe. Mohammed Enagi
SM In a brief debate on a motion sponsored by Senator Sani Musa (APC-Niger East), the senators expressed worries that the state had started lagging behind in education, agriculture, and other socio-economic engagements due to insecurity. Senator Enagi lamented that none of the resolutions that had been adopted by the Senate and sent to President Buhari was executed. According to him, the Federal Government under the leadership of Buhari is grossly incompetent. The visibly angry lawmaker further noted that the government had been evasive on issues that ought to be given attention. “I’m sorry to say this, the government is grossly incompetent in the handling of security challenges in this country,” Enagi said. “In my own zone, a few days ago, terrorists went to two local governments, but fortunately, my people were able to repel and kill nine of them and in short everybody that is here has a story to tell about security challenges in this country. “What else are we supposed to do that we are not doing? Are we supposed to amend laws in this country to give every citizen the opportunity to carry arms? What else are we supposed to do? “Shouldn’t we amend Nigerian Constitution to give more powers to the governors who are the Chief Security Officers of their various states because our government at the centre is so incompetent in the handling of security issues?” Enagi queried. According to the senator, the condition of the parents of the kidnapped students is best imagined. “If it is one of us that his or her daughter and son was kidnapped… I expect everyone in government to think like that,” he said. He lamented that “for over two years, our police and other security agents have been trying and for over two years, we discuss security challenges that we are facing, yet nothing has improved.” “Mr. President, my highly respected distinguished colleagues, the situation in this country is disheartening and something needs to be done,” Enagi submitted. Also, Senator Sabi Aliu (APC-Niger North) expressed dissatisfaction that the Nigerian government had been unable to ensure the release of some 18 travellers kidnapped last Sunday in Niger State. He called for more decisive actions from security agencies to get the kidnapped persons released. Aliu urged the Nigerian government to take extraordinary measures to halt the spate of insecurity which he feared could spread to the Federal Capital Territory. The Senate urged the President to as a matter of urgency declare the state of emergency on insecurity in Nigeria. 