The Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, has ordered the security agencies in the state to investigate the clash between herdsmen and farmers in the Yewa-North area of the state. The governor gave the directive in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, at the end of the state security council meeting held in Abeokuta on Saturday. Governor Dapo Abiodun Violence had erupted in Eggua, a community in the Yewa North Local Government Area, following the visit of Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, (Igboho) to the area. In the statement, Abiodun said he had already set up a Special Task Force that would be deployed to all areas of the state prone to herders/farmers' conflict to maintain peace and quickly respond to any form of violence or crimes. The statement read, “The government is immediately setting up a joint security patrol team/task force involving all security agencies in the state to not only deal with the situation, but to also nip in the bud any threat, violence or criminality.” Abiodun also directed that those behind the recent violence in Eggua in the Yewa North Local Government Area of the state should be brought to justice. "We will not condone any act of criminality in the state no matter who is involved. “The police and other security agencies have been directed to go after the perpetrators of this act and bring them to book. We will not allow anybody to disrupt the peace in Ogun State, and anyone who tries to test our resolve to maintain peace in our state will have himself or herself to blame.” While commiserating with the family of the deceased, Abiodun also sympathised with those who lost their farmlands as well as cows during the unfortunate incident. He said, “Our state is known for being a haven of peace, security and harmonious relationship amongst people of different ethnic groups, whether citizens or settlers who consider the state their home. “This is a long and cherished tradition that we are proud of and which this administration is committed to sustaining.‌“We therefore condemn in strong terms the recent unfortunate violence orchestrated by certain elements by whipping up and capitalising on divisive ethnic sentiments to perpetrate an agenda that is inimical to public security and safety. "Our hearts go out to the family of the deceased and those who lost their properties in the needless violence." The governor had also convened an expansive stakeholders’ meeting to hold next week, involving farmers, herdsmen and others to bring about peace. He enjoined residents of the state to go about their activities while being security-conscious. “This administration is determined to end this unfortunate cycle of violence and we are hopeful that the all inclusive stakeholders’ meeting will identify specific and practical initiatives that will achieve the desired end. “In the meantime, all residents of the state are enjoined to continue to go about their lawful businesses and report any strange movements or threats to peace in their neighbourhoods to the security agencies who have been put on red alert to respond swiftly and act decisively.”