A woman, Bilikis Aina Erinle, has accused her ex-husband, Adesina Lateef Adeola, of coming with miscreants to take their kids from her custody while she was taking them to school last Tuesday. Erinle also said that her car and mobile phone were taken away from her during the assaults allegedly perpetrated by Ademola and his heavily armed thugs.  She told SaharaReporters on Monday as she narrated her ordeal in the hands of the father of her kids and his family. “I went to drop off my kids on the 26th of January at their school, Spring of Life School at Lakowe,” she said. “The father of my kids just bombarded me with heavily armed thugs. About four thugs approached and overpowered me. They took my kids from me. As I was trying to take pictures and also record what was going on, he ordered them to seize my phone so that I couldn’t call anyone. “Right now, my kids - Faozy Adeshina Ademola and Jassim Adeola Adeola - are missing. I believe they are with him. They are both boys of 9 and 7 years of age. “They were about 10 that came, including his relations, in the vehicle they brought to attack me. His mother and two of his siblings came along with him and the thugs.” Discussing the issues between them before the alleged attack, Erinle disclosed that they had separated because they had problems in their marriage. She said Ademola lives in Kuwait but caught her unawares that day, as she did not know he was in Nigeria. “There were ups and downs before I left him. I live at Lakowe Gulf, Ibeju-Lekki, while he lives in Kuwait. I didn’t know he was around until that day that I took my kids to school, and he came to attack,” she revealed. "Also, my car, my phone and my laptop were taken away from me. He had access to my YouTube channel, which is my means of livelihood. He deleted all my 208 videos which I used for fashion design training with about 300,000 subscribers." “I’m a popular person in the fashion industry - Bilikis Signature - and my kids are missing,” she lamented. According to her, her children’s school, Spring of Life, Lakowe, Ibeju-Lekki has taken up the matter against Ademola. She also said the Ministry of Education in Lagos is aware of the matter. “Even now the school has taken up the matter, and I was told that the Lagos State Ministry of Education is also aware,” she added. All efforts made by SaharaReporters to speak with Ademola or any member of his family were not successful as they did not answer when they were called.