A list of some staff members of Government Science College, Kagara, Niger State abducted by gunmen suspected to be bandits has been revealed. The staff members were identified as Mrs Salmanu, Mr Lawal, Mr Ali, Mr Batagi, Mr Mohammed Abubakar and Mrs Hannatu Dodo, along with her husband.  Meanwhile, SaharaReporters gathered that Batagi escaped from the gunmen around 6am. Gunmen had on Wednesday morning attacked the school which has a population of over 1,000 students. According to a source, the attack started from the staff quarters and ended in the students' hostels. The incident happened barely three days after 21 passengers heading to Minna, capital of Niger State, were abducted in broad daylight by bandits affiliated with the Abubakar Shekau’s faction of Boko Haram, Jama’atu Ahlussunnah Lidda’awati Wal Jihad.



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Many Students Missing As Bandits Attack Niger Secondary School
0 Comments
5 Hours Ago In a video clip released by the gunmen on Tuesday, the passengers were seen begging the Nigerian government “to do something” about their release. The 44-second video seen by SaharaReporters shows fully armed fighters speaking in Arabic, Hausa and Kanuri. “God is the greatest, all praise is due to God alone,” members of the banditry group said. Boko Haram had in June 2020 released a video and confirmed its link with the armed groups operating in the North-West and North-Central part of the country. “Special greetings from your jihadi brethren in the Lake Chad Basin. Greetings to our leader Abu Muhammad Ibn Muhammad Abubakar Asshakawy,” a member of the sect said. “My second message is for all of the Mujahideen, especially those close to us. We send you Islamic greetings. “My other message is for all the unbelievers in the world. Repent, you still have time. And if you don’t, wait and see what will happen to you very soon,” he said. “My message to Kuffar (unbelievers). O’Kuffar, you have time to repent to Allah before Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta’ala punishes you with our hands,” the English speaker warned. “Soon you will see what is happening in your marketplaces. Soon you’ll see what is happening in your offices. “Soon you’ll see what is happening in your homes. Anywhere you are, soon you’ll see what is happening.” Two months later, the group released another video where its members gathered in an open field said to be located in Niger State to celebrate Eid el Kabir, a Muslim festival. The footage also showed about three fighters sending Eid greetings in Hausa, English and Fulfulde to viewers. “It is we the Jamahatu Ali Sunna li Dawatul Jihad in the location of Niger State. We want to send our Sallah salutation, first of all to our imam, Abu Muhammad Ibn Abubakar Shekau,” one of the terrorists dressed in a Nigerian police uniform said. In December 2020, over 300 students of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State, were abducted. The abduction happened when President Muhammadu Buhari was visiting his home state of Katsina.