A group identified as Adara Development Association has demanded justice for Janet Audu, a teenage girl, who was dehumanised by the family where she was serving as a home help. According to a statement from Awemi Dio Maisamari, the group's President, the serious injuries inflicted on Audu caused her to be hospitalised.  The group warned that anyone determined to truncate the course of justice for Audu should desist, vowing that it will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that all persons responsible for the act are prosecuted. It also warned parents to stop giving out their wards to unknown people who prey on the children. Pictures of Audu made available to SaharaReporters show the young girl with huge scars on her face and some other parts of her body, suggesting she was badly maltteated and physically abused. The statement read, “The attention of Adara Development Association (ADA) has been drawn to the pathetic case of Janet Audu, an Adara girl who has been hospitalised as a result of serious injuries inflicted on her in the family where she is serving as a house help. “The Association is therefore thanking the goodspirited individuals who brought this case to the attention of all concerned individuals and relevant authorities. “Though we have heard that some powerful people are mounting pressure for this dehumanising incident to be swept under the carpet, but we wish to assure all that no stone will be left unturned to get justice for the poor girl. “We can't help but wonder why a supposedly sane and responsible family or woman can be so vicious to a child. We are therefore demanding that all persons responsible for this horrific act be prosecuted to serve as a deterrent to other wicked individuals. “While sympathising with her and wishing her quick healing, we are calling on all members of the Adara community to put a stop to the shameful practice of giving out their wards to unknown predator families. “Furthermore, the Association will henceforth adopt a stronger measure of deterring all those involved in releasing our children to strangers."