The Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), popularly known as Shiites has raised fears over the deteriorating health of its leader, Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, and his wife, Zeena, who are being held in Kaduna prison. The group in a statement issued on Thursday in Abuja by the Secretary, Academic Forum of the Movement, Abdullahi Musa disclosed that their health condition has deteriorated and that they require urgent medical treatment.  While lamenting the poor health condition of the couple, the sect said it has become a source of worry and concern. It said the Nigerian government should be held responsible should anything bad happen to them. The statement added that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led regime remained defiant and continued to hold them without the required medical or surgical treatment despite several court orders, entreaties, appeals, and protests asking for their release. The statement said, "Nearly a year ago, on the 24th of October, 2020, to be exact, a visit to Sheikh El-Zakzaky by his only surviving son, Mohammed, unwrapped that although the Sheikh and his wife were alive, proper medical attention was all they needed in earnest. Yet, if the condition has ever changed, it is for the worst. Right now, they could only do with a state-of-the-art medical facility. "Up to now, they have been suffering from many injuries in their bodies and resultant multiple life-threatening health challenges. Even so, the current health condition of Sheikh El-Zakzaky and his wife is causing considerable distress. It is also a constant source of worry to many Nigerian citizens. "Therefore, it is worth public attention as it continues to deteriorate by the day. In spite of all this, and defiance of several court orders, Buhari continues to hold them without the required medical or surgical treatment." The statement added that it was obvious that the ploy by the Nigerian government was aimed at prolonging his stay in detention and toying with his life. "Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky is being affected by progressive glaucoma, cervical spondylitis, and there are up to 55 bullet fragments with excessive lead and cadmium poisoning in his body. "There has been a serious case of sleep disorder, recurrent spiking hypertension, and episodes of stroke. Virtually a year ago, his cardiac ischaemia and ventricular hypertrophy were found to deteriorate to a severe degree, now requiring cardiac catheterisation. "Of course, there is more to the Buhari regime's wilful denial of proper medication to the couple than meets the eye; and such dilly-dallying is a matter of great concern. It is another cause for alarm because it is nothing but a move to complete what they started at the tail end of 2015."