Hundreds of Nigerians, particularly from the South-East region stormed the Kenyan Embassy in Dublin, Ireland, in protest over the East African country’s arrest and extradition of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, to Nigeria. The protesters with placards sang solidarity songs, chanting, “Kenya, betrayers, Kenya, shame.”  “This is the Embassy of Kenya in Dublin. Africa betraying Africa; it is a pity. For betraying Nnamdi Kanu, they will not know good. IPOB members are here to protest,” one of the protesters said in a video obtained by SaharaReporters. “Kenya government are liars. Why continue to deny? If you have betrayed him, say the truth. Don’t continue to deny. You think Nnamdi Kanu would not say who betrayed him? He says. You think we don’t know. We do,” another protester yelled. Although the Kenya authorities have yet to own up to the arrest of Kanu, the IPOB leader had on July 7 confirmed in an interview with his lawyers that he was arrested and tortured for days in Kenya. SaharaReporters had on July 7 reported that Kanu recounted his experience in Kenya while speaking with his lawyers, saying he was “mercilessly beaten and tortured” in the East African country before his extradition to Nigeria. “There was a clear collaboration between the Kenya government and the Nigerian government and I am happy that they are now denying the fact that Kanu was arrested in there. “But by the time we finish with them at the International Criminal Court, they will never remain the same. He was arrested at the airport there and he was taken to an unknown residence. He was subjected to inhuman treatment.  “Kanu was tortured, maltreated and mercilessly beaten, as confirmed by him to us. After spending eight days in their illegal custody, they now beckoned to the Nigerian government. Kanu was lifeless and unconscious by the time they were bringing him to Nigeria. “To tell you the level of their conspiracy and the desperation to get him, they brought him here on a Sunday and the federal government is fully aware that I am his legal counsel. “He was brought into the country and inflicted with several injuries and a he is having a number of medical issues today. It was at the behest of the Federal government that Kenya was doing those things. This is against all international laws. We are going to address an international court at that level,” the lawyer had said.