Hundreds of women, including parents of kidnapped Bethel Baptist School students on Monday, blocked the Kachia Highway in Maraban Rido to protest against the incessant kidnapping of schoolchildren in the state. This followed the abduction of students on Monday morning from Bethel Baptist High School, Kaduna.  The women around 3pm blocked the road with logs of wood, preventing commuters from using the road. However, a military convoy arrived at the scene around 3:05pm and opened the road for commuters. SaharaReporters had earlier reported that suspected bandits kidnapped many over 160 students of Bethel Baptist School located in Maraban Rido in the Chikun Local Government Area of the state. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Bandits Attack Secondary School In Kaduna, Abduct Many Students 
0 Comments
22 Hours Ago The development comes just hours after bandits abducted babies, female nurses and security guards from the residential quarters of the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Centre (NTLC) in Zaria, Kaduna State on Sunday. Soldiers in the early hours of Monday thwarted an attack on Faith Academy, a secondary school owned by Living Faith Church Worldwide, founded by Bishop David Oyedepo. The school is not far from a boarding school where many students were abducted in the Chikun local government area of the state. The gunmen had launched coordinated attacks on both Bethel secondary school and Faith Academy in the early hours of Monday. While they abducted students at Bethel School, the attack on Faith Academy was foiled. A security agent confirmed the gunmen broke into the premises of Faith Academy through the back fence around 1am but were repelled by soldiers, with assistance from the school security team. A parent, whose son attends the school, told Daily Trust that the school management had last week instructed all students to go home, except SS3 students who were preparing for final year exams. She said adequate provision has been made to move the SS3 students to Barnawa in Kaduna South local government area where they are expected to continue with their studies. She commended security agents for their timely intervention, saying her son and others who were in the hostel during the attack are safe and have been evacuated from the school premises. When contacted, the Kaduna State Police Command through the Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, said he could not confirm it but security agents were busy thwarting attacks by bandits throughout the night. The incident comes a few weeks after some students of Federal Government College, Birnin-Yauri in Kebbi state were kidnapped after gunmen stormed the school.