President Muhammadu Buhari has mourned singer, Olanrewaju Fasasi, popularly known as Sound Sultan. The singer had on Sunday died after a hard-fought battle with Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma. He was 44-year-old . President Muhammadu Buhari Buhari in a statement on Monday by his spokesman, Femi Adesina, noted that Sound Sultan’s demise was not only a loss to the Nigerian music industry, but to the country as a whole. He described the late entertainer as a celebrated rapper, singer, songwriter, actor, he lived an exemplary life, achieved several milestones in his career and contributed greatly to the development of the Nigerian music and entertainment industry through his artistic genius, creativity and talent, which has inspired many young Nigerians in the industry. See Also






Opinion
Nigerians React To Last Moments, Emotional Instagram Post Of Sound Sultan
0 Comments
1 Day Ago The statement read, “President Muhammadu Buhari extends heartfelt condolences to the Fasasi family on the death of renowned singer and songwriter, Olanrewaju Fasasi, popularly known as Sound Sultan, aged 44. “The President notes that Sound Sultan’s demise is not only a loss to the Nigerian music industry, but to the country as a whole. “As a celebrated rapper, singer, songwriter, actor, he lived an exemplary life, achieved several milestones in his career, and contributed greatly to the development of the Nigerian music and entertainment industry through his artistic genius, creativity, and talent, which has inspired many young Nigerians in the industry. “The deceased, President Buhari affirms, was kind, generous, and deeply passionate about issues in the country, which reflected in his music and art, and as an avid basketball fan, he made telling contributions to the development of local basketball in the country. “The President prays for the eternal repose of the soul of the departed and divine peace and comfort for the family, friends, and associates.”  PHOTONEWS: Tears As Nigerian Singer, Sound Sultan Is Laid To Rest At Marlboro Muslim Cemetery In New Jersey, United States pic.twitter.com/eoiEUMzAyb 