The Nigeria Police Force has invited the Executive Director, Men Against Rape Foundation, Lemmy Ughegbe following a planned protest tagged #Justice4KerenRally to demand justice for a 14-year-old rape victim, Miss Keren-Happuch Akpagher. Keren-Happuch was a boarding house pupil of Premiere Academy, Lugbe, Abuja who was allegedly raped.  She died from an infection in her private parts. Coalition of Gender-Based Violence (GBV) Responders had scheduled the rally for Friday, July 9, 2021at Unity Fountain based on information on a flyer being circulated on social media. But on Thursday, the police summoned the gender activist in a letter of invitation signed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, CID, FCT Command, DCP Fom Pam Joseph, with Ref. No 3000/FCT/X/D9/ VoL 62/38, dated July 8, 2021.  They accused him of inciting public disturbance. The letter read, "This office is investigating a case of inciting public disturbance wherein your name featured prominently. In view of the above, you are kindly requested to interview the undersigned through the officer in charge of Gender Section, Criminal Investigation Department, Abuja today 8/7/2021. SaharaReporters also learnt that the report of an autopsy conducted at the instance of the police confirmed that Karen was raped and sodomised. He died from a sepsis infection caused by the condom which was left in her uterus by yet-to-be-identified persons in the school. The police last week commenced an investigation into the matter to unravel the cause of the death of the pupil. Surprisingly, the police, through Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Fom Pam Joseph refused to release the copy of the medical report to the police-appointed pathologist, which eventually stalled the scheduled autopsy. The principal pathologist at the Maitama General Hospital, Dr. Desmond Ike Okonkwo was appointed by the police to conduct the autopsy. He had demanded from the police a copy of the medical report on the death of Keren-Happuch. The pathologist said having a copy of the medical report was a pre-condition for him to conduct the autopsy. Meanwhile, the Coalition of Gender-Based Violence (GBV) Responders who have been following the matter compelled the DCP to release the documents after being pressured by his superior. The group in a statement issued in Abuja accused the police of handling the matter with levity and lack of professionalism, noting that the attitude of DCP Fom Pam Joseph was an indication that the police had no regard for cases of sexual and gender-based violence. The school authority in an attempt to conceal the truth claimed that no such incident occurred in the school premises adding that Keren was diagnosed with having diabetes when she was 9 years old but was mismanaged by her doctor and parents. The group has vowed to continue with the rally and not to be cowed or intimidated by police invitation in demanding justice for the SS1 student whose life was cut short. According to the Executive Director, Make a Difference Initiative, and a member of the group, Lemmy Ughegbe, the group will stop at nothing in ensuring that those who perpetrated the act are brought to justice. He said, "The cry for justice for the late schoolgirl, Karen, is on, and we will continue to stay on the story until the right thing is done until justice is done. Coalition of Gender-Based Violence (GBV) Responders is committed to this and we are continually seeking safe spaces for our children. "Remember one out of ten boys before their 18th birthday get violated and one out of three girls get violated before their 18th birthday. So this is serious and we must seek justice for Karen-Happuch Akpagher."