The Federal Capital Territory Police Command has begun an investigation into the alleged rape of an unnamed lady by a security operative attached to Bisi Fayemi, wife of Ekiti state governor, Kayode Fayemi. The state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Olawale Fapohunda disclosed this in a statement obtained by SaharaReporters. Bisi Fayemi According to Fapohunda, the alleged rape incident occurred on Monday, July 5, 2021, in Abuja. He said the matter, which has been reported at Criminal Investigation Department (CID) FCT Command, was undergoing investigation, adding that further action will be determined by the outcome of the probe. The statement reads, “The Ministry of Justice is presently prosecuting 121 cases of Rape in various courts across Ekiti State. This number is particularly disturbing considering this statistic only relates to victims or their relatives who are willing to support the ministry in the prosecution of these cases. Adding unwilling victims to this number is even more alarming. “It is for this reason that the Ekiti State Ministry of Justice is today announcing additional measures to curb sexual violence in the state, as follows: Hindering Prosecution’ has now been proposed to be an offence in the Ekiti State Criminal Law Bill, 2021, that is now before the Ekiti State House of Assembly. Under this heading, it will be a criminal offence for any person to seek to hinder or unlawfully influence the office of the Attorney-General to discontinue certain criminal matters including Rape, Sexual Assault and Child Defilement. The punishment prescribed is 5 years imprisonment on conviction. Persons in the habit of writing letters of discontinuance in rape matters are specifically invited to take note. “Meanwhile, the attention of the Ekiti State Ministry of Justice has been drawn to a complaint of rape against a security personnel deployed to the state government house and attached to the convoy of the wife of the Governor. The incident is alleged to have taken place on Monday, July 5, 2021, in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. “The case is now being handled by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), FCT Command Headquarters of the Nigeria Police Force. The State Government will cooperate fully with the police investigation team to ensure the matter is investigated thoroughly. The victim is receiving extensive psycho-social and legal support to cope with the trauma, and seek justice, and her identity being protected. “The Ministry of Justice will continue to aggressively pursue the Dr. Kayode Fayemi administration’s Zero Tolerance policy for all forms of sexual violence. Government requires the support of our citizens to speak up and speak out on sexual violence in the State. This is our collective responsibility.”