The wife of Yoruba activist, Chief Sunday Adeyemo (Igboho) was abducted by gunmen who invaded his Ibadan home on Thursday. This was made known in a statement issued by the leader of the Umbrella Body of Yoruba Self-Determination Groups, Ilana Omo Oodua, Emeritus Professor Banji Akintoye, while reacting to the invasion of the residence of the Yoruba nation agitator, Igboho early on Thursday. In the statement made available to journalists by his communications manager, Maxwell Adeleye, Akintoye, the renowned historian, alleged that the attack was carried out by members of the Nigerian Army, who were accompanied by some terrorists hired by the Nigerian State. Sunday Igboho He also alleged that the assailants were all dressed in military uniforms and spoke the French language fluently. He further said that the gunmen killed seven occupants in the building and whisked away Igboho's wife and several others. The statement read, "This is an emergency response to an emergency matter by Ilana Omo Oodua. Around 1 am today Thursday, 1st July 2021, the Ibadan, Oyo State Residence of one of the leading men in our struggle for Self-Determination in Yoruba Land, Chief Sunday Adeyemo fondly called Sunday Igboho was unfortunately attacked by gunmen. "I want to say to the whole world that the attack was carried out by the elements of the Nigerian Army who were accompanied by international terrorists hired by the Nigerian State. "The assailants spoke the French Language fluently. Seven people were killed by the attackers, with their corpses taken away. Scores of people, including the wife of Chief Ighoho, were also taken away by the gunmen. "Let me state without any fear or intimidation that the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration was responsible for the war that has just been declared against the peace-loving people of Yoruba Land. "We have been peaceful from the inception of this struggle. We have adhered to both the Nigerian and International Laws guiding the agitation for Self-Determination. "All our agitations have been peaceful, orderly, and lawfully executed. We have commended the officers of the Nigerian Police many times for being professional in their modus of operations in relating to our protests and rallies for Self-Determination in Yoruba cities. "Therefore, I say on behalf of the Yoruba people that this attack on Chief Ighoho's House was unnecessary, unfortunate, wicked, callous, cruel, irresponsible, illegal, and atrocious. "We are holding the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration responsible for this barbaric attack. This is a declaration of war against peace-loving people. "I call on our people across at home and in the diaspora to immediately begin mass protests in front of palaces in Yoruba Land, and opposite the offices of the United Nations, European Union, British, French and United States Governments."We want to confirm again that the Pro-Yoruba Nation rally scheduled to hold on Saturday, July 3rd, in Lagos will proceed as scheduled."