More details have emerged of the illegal abduction of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Kenya, including that of the vehicle registration plate or number plate of the vehicle in which he was taken. SaharaReporters had reported that Kanu was taken from an underground parking lot of an international airport in Kenya, while trying to "meet a person arriving in the country for a high-level IPOB meeting". Nnamdi Kanu
AFP A source privy to how Kanu was illegally kidnapped in Kenya and brought to Nigeria by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government has revealed that "it was only his Kenyan-based phone that was seized upon his arrest". See Also






Politics
How IPOB Leader, Kanu Was Kidnapped From Airport Parking Lot In Kenya
0 Comments
12 Hours Ago The source said his "passport and three (major) phones plus laptop were not with him during the time he was kidnapped". Also according to the source, Kanu was arrested in an "Audi TT with licence plate number KCV 100 K". SaharaReporters also learnt that Kanu has engaged the services of a top law firm, Bindmans LLP,  to represent him in the UK.  Bindmans is an award-winning law firm based in central London with four senior consultants and 21 partners. The senior consultants are Sir Geoffrey Bindmans QC, Stephen Grosz QC, Saimo Chahal QC, and Lynn Knowles.  SaharaReporters has consistently reported that Kanu was arrested inside a car, and not while strolling as some reports have claimed. SaharaReporters had reported, quoting a top source, that "Kanu had arrived in Kenya and settled down in a house. On June 19, 2021, he drove himself in a car to the international airport to meet a person arriving in the country for a high-level IPOB meeting. "He drove into the underground parking lot at the airport and was arrested before exiting the car. "He was taken to a house and brutalised for 8 days while the Nigerian authorities perfected how to forcefully relocate him to Nigeria. "He was travelling on a British passport, not a Nigerian passport as alleged by Malami. He was brought into Nigeria on a Saturday and arraigned on Monday. "Buhari upon learning of his abduction decided to cancel his trip to the UK to manage the diplomatic fallouts at home instead of going to London. "Kanu was interrogated in the presence of his lawyers in the DSS office in Abuja. "He was taken out of Kenya without passing through immigration." There have been reports that INTERPOL was involved in Kanu's arrest but the top dismissed that, saying "INTERPOL wasn’t involved". Nigeria’s Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) on Tuesday, June 29, 2021, confirmed that Kanu had been rearrested. At a joint press briefing with the State Security Service (SSS), also known as the Department of State Services (DSS) in Abuja, Malami said Kanu was rearrested and returned to Nigeria on Sunday, June 27. He did not, however, give details of where Kanu was arrested and the diplomatic collaborations that may have been involved in the operation. According to him, the IPOB leader was arrested through “collaborative efforts of Nigerian intelligence and security services”. Kanu, who is being prosecuted on charges of treasonable felony, was thereafter arraigned at the Federal High Court in Abuja. It was his first court appearance since he fled Nigeria in September 2017 after an invasion of his home by the military in Afara-Ukwu, near Umuahia in Abia State.