Nigerians living in London, United Kingdom, have begun a protest to demand the release of Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, who was arrested by the Nigerian government in Kenya last Sunday and extradited to Nigeria. Some of the protesters waved the Biafran flag in a video obtained by SaharaReporters as they chanted, “Free Nnamdi Kanu now”, “Free Nnamdi Kanu now.”  Kanu is a British and a Nigerian citizen and it is believed that he had been staying in the UK. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, had first on Tuesday announced the arrest of Kanu, while listing his offences and insisting that he must continue his court trial in earnest. Malami, in the text of his press conference in Abuja on Tuesday, had noted that the IPOB leader, apart from jumping bail, has been “accused of engaging in subversive activities that include inciting violence through television, radio and online broadcasts against Nigeria and Nigerian State and institutions.” “He has been brought back to Nigeria in order to continue facing trial after disappearing while on bail regarding an 11 counts against him. "It is recalled that Kanu was arrested on 14th October, 2015 on 11 counts bordering on terrorism, treasonable felony, managing an unlawful society, publication of defamatory matter, illegal possession of firearms and improper importation of goods, among others. "A judge at the Federal High Court, Abuja revoked Kanu's bail that was granted him on health grounds and issued a bench warrant for his arrest on the same date, over his failure to appear in court for hearing. "He has, upon jumping bail, been accused of engaging in subversive activities that include inciting violence through television, radio and online broadcasts against Nigeria and Nigerian State and institutions. "Kanu was also accused of instigating violence especially in the Southeastern Nigeria that resulted in the loss of lives and property of civilians, military, para military, police forces and destruction of civil institutions and symbols of authorities,” Malami stated. SaharaReporters had reported that Kanu was blindfolded and sneaked into the courtroom by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) in handcuffs while his legs were also chained. He was hurriedly taken to Court 2 where the presiding judge told the prosecution lawyer, Shuaib Labaran to inform the defence counsel of the new date for the continuation of the trial. Journalists were prevented from filming Kanu as he was shielded and taken through the back door. The prosecution applied that Kanu jumped bail and wanted him to be remanded at DSS custody. The court granted the application. Justice Muritala Nyanko has adjourned the matter to July 26, 2021.