The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, wrote a petition to the Department of State Services, asking them to quiz the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, over a number of issues. SaharaReporters learnt that the AGF’s petition to the DSS centred on Kanu’s series of broadcasts from Radio Biafra concerning Nigeria and his calls for secession.  SaharaReporters gathered that when the DSS Officials on Tuesday decided to quiz Kanu, the IPOB leader insisted he wanted to see a copy of Malami’s petition. “The DSS interviewers said they were the investigating him for a petition submitted to them by the Attorney General of the Federation, Malami. The petition is about Kanu’s several broadcasts. Kanu insisted on seeing a copy of petition and an opportunity to review the broadcasts in question,” a top source revealed. SaharaReporters had on Tuesday reported how Kanu revealed to his lawyers that the Kenya operatives chained him to the floor for six days, not knowing who he was, until the news about him began to filter in. SaharaReporters had been told that Kanu, by that time, had suffered injuries in his neck and his wrist. It was also reported that Kanu, for the first time, was interviewed on Wednesday by the Department of State Services officials in Abuja, in the presence of his lawyers, led by Barrister Ifeanyi Ejiofor. It was during the interview that the revelations of what happened to Kanu in Kenya came out. SaharaReporters had on June 29 reported that Malami listed out the allegations against the IPOB leader, saying he must continue his court trial in earnest. The AGF had said, "The self-acclaimed leader of the proscribed secessionist IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, has been arrested through the collaborative efforts of Nigerian intelligence and security services. “He has been brought back to Nigeria in order to continue facing trial after disappearing while on bail regarding 11 count charge against him. Recent steps taken by the Federal Government saw to the interception of the fugitive Kanu on Sunday, the 27th day of June, 2021. “Nwannekaenyi Nnamdi Ngozichukwu Okwu-Kanu, born 25th day of September, 1967 at Afaraukwu, Abia State is a holder of Nigerian Passport No. A05136827 first issued 17th October 2013 at FESTAC, Lagos. “It is recalled that Kanu was arrested on 14th October, 2015 on 11 count charge bordering on terrorism, treasonable felony, managing an unlawful society, publication of defamatory matter, illegal possession of firearms and improper importation of goods, among others. “A judge at the Federal High Court, Abuja revoked Kanu's bail that was granted him on health ground and issued a bench warrant for his arrest on the same date, over his failure to appear in court for hearing. “He has, upon jumping bail, been accused of engaging in subversive activities that include inciting violence through television, radio and online broadcasts against Nigeria and Nigerian State and institutions. “Kanu was also accused of instigating violence especially in the Southeastern Nigeria that resulted in the loss of lives and property of civilians, military, para military, police forces and destruction of civil institutions and symbols of authorities.” SaharaReporters had earlier reported that Kanu was arrested and brought to the Federal High Court, Abuja by heavy security operatives. Kanu was blindfolded and sneaked into the courtroom by DSS operatives in handcuffs while his legs were also chained. He was hurriedly taken to Court 2 where the presiding judge told the prosecution lawyer, Shuaib Labaran to inform the defence counsel of the new date for the continuation of the trial. Justice Muritala Nyanko has adjourned the matter to July 26, 2021.