President Muhammadu Buhari in a subtle move has appointed the immediate past Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Attahiru Jega, one of the critics of his administration, as Chairman of the University of Jos Governing Council. Jega, who also superintended the 2015 general elections which brought Buhari to power, was announced among 42 other names on Thursday by the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, for the appointment.  Jega had only in January described Buhari's government as disappointing, saying many Nigerians were already disappointed. But Buhari approved the appointment of Jega as the Chairman, Governing Council of the University of Jos on Thursday. While addressing newsmen in Abuja, the education minister said the 42 new chairmen of the governing councils of the federal universities would help to give direction and efficiency to the university system. Two former ministers, Prof Anthony Anwuka and Udoma Udo Udoma, were also appointed chairmen of governing councils. While Anwuka is to chair the council of the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun, Delta State, Udoma will chair the council of Bayero University, Kano. Both Udoma and Anwuka served as ministers in the first term of Buhari's presidency. Other Chairmen of Councils are Prof Ahmed Mohammed Modibbo, University of Abuja; Malam Adamu Fika, Ahmadu Bello University Zaria; Dr. Sonny Kuku, University Of Benin; Chief Ikechi Emenike, University Of Nigeria; Nsukka and Ballama Manu, University Of Maiduguri. Adamu also noted that the President approved the re-constitution of Governing Councils of 23 federal universities and Inter-University Centres (IUCs) following the expiration of their tenures on May 8, 2021. SaharaReporters on January 24 reported that Jega described Buhari's government as disappointing, saying many Nigerians were worried about the direction it was taking the country. The Professor of Political Science had accused the present administration of being very inept in managing peaceful coexistence in the country. At a function, Jega had said, “Unfortunately, he has disappointed so many people. He still has time to correct things if he has the capacity to do that. But frankly, his government has been very disappointing. Many people wish him well but are worried about the direction the country is taking. “Governance has been very poor at the federal level and many of the states, that is why we are seeing challenges everywhere; whether it is insurgency, banditry, armed robbery or other things.” The former INEC Chairman further stated that the accumulated misgivings by sections of the citizens led to frustrations, which “find expression in these demands for restructuring.” He also described Nigerian politicians as greedy, selfish and reckless. He said, “We have a lot to do; and the first thing to do is to get it right by securing the mindset of our politicians from selfishness, greed and reckless banditry. Actually, many of them are also bandits, not just those who stand by the roadside with AK-47. "To steal recklessly from government’s coffers and turn hundreds, if not millions of people into poverty, deny children the opportunity to go to school because they have stolen the money that would have gone into education or was supposed to buy arms and ammunition for the military, to the extent that they can no longer fight banditry, that is banditry itself.”