The Imo State House of Assembly descended into chaos on Thursday after the Speaker of the House, Paul Emeziem, announced the suspension of six members for alleged ‘unparliamentary conduct.’ It was learnt that the Speaker of the Assembly, Paul Emeziem, alongside some members of the House narrowly escaped being shot by some unknown gunmen after the announcement. Imo Assembly Speaker Paul Emeziem During the shooting, the Speaker was hurriedly bundled out of the premises by his personal aides. Emeziem had earlier announced the suspension of two PDP members and four APC members indefinitely. The affected lawmakers were Kennedy Ibe (Obowo), Crown Onyemaechi (Ihitte-Uboma), Uche Ogbuagu (Ikeduru), Dominic Ezerioha (Oru West), Philip Ejiogu (Owerri North), and Anyadike Nwosu (Ezinihitte Mbaise). While Ejiogu and Nwosu were of PDP, the other four were of the ruling party in the state, APC. The Imo Assembly also dissolved all its standing committees as well and also sacked the House Chief Whip, Arthur Egwim (Ideato North). It replaced Egwim with Obinna Okwara (Nkwerre). Announcing the development on the floor of the House, Emeziem said the suspension was to enable the House enjoy relative peace and smooth operation. He said the decision was reached at the executive session of the House, added that his leadership would not condone acts capable of bringing the House to disrepute and ridicule. “We have observed that some members here have been conducting themselves in an unparliamentary manner thereby bringing the house to ridicule,” the Speaker said. “We have thoroughly examined this issue at the executive session of the house and have resolved that peace and order must continue to reign. “The executive session has therefore recommended the suspension of the members who have engaged in different misconduct. “This action is in line with ensuring that the image of the house remains as it should be, while providing a functional environment and the synergy which we are required to provide to ensure all arms of government work together.”