The abductors of the Emir of Kajuru, Alhassan Adamu, have demanded a ransom of N200 million. The monarch was kidnapped by bandits in the early hours of Sunday along with 13 of his family members, including two grandchildren. Emir of Kajuru, Alhassan Adamu
ChannelsTV However, the spokesperson for the Kajuru Emirate Council, Dahiru Abubakar, while giving an update to newsmen on Monday, revealed the bandits’ demand. According to Abubakar, the bandits also gave assurances that all the victims were in good condition and not being molested. He further revealed that the council is still appealing to the bandits to release the 85-year-old monarch and his relatives unconditionally, especially given his fragile health condition. Meanwhile, one bandit was reportedly killed and some others injured in a shootout with soldiers during the attack on the Emir’s palace, according to security sources in the local government. The sources said the bandits, during the operation, divided themselves into two, with one group engaging the soldiers in a gun battle, while the other group moved into the palace, and later took the Emir and 14 others away into the forest. Numbering over 200, the bandits arrived at the community on motorcycles in the early hours of Sunday morning through a nearby forest that stretches the Kaduna-Abuja highway in Kachia Local Government Area, and started shooting sporadically, before they were engaged by soldiers that were deployed to the area. See Also






Insecurity
FULL LIST: Identities of Kaduna Emir, 13 Family Members, Relations Abducted By Bandits
0 Comments
1 Day Ago SaharaReporters had obtained the names and ages of the abductees. They are; HRH Alhaji Alhasssan Adamu; 85 Zainab Alhassan, daughter; 25 Zainab Muktar, granddaughter; 15 Muhammad Musa, grandson, 28 Salim Musa; grandson; 22 Faisai Musa, grandson, 20 Ahmad Muktar, grandson; 20 Nazifi Rayyanu, relative; 25 Suleiman Umar; Sallaman Sarki; 35 Ayuba Yinusa; relative; 34 Aminu Abubakar; relative; 20 Maryam Abubakar; relative; 18 Maryam Dayah; relative; 25 Madassri Sani; relative, 1 The Police Public Relations Officer of the Command, Muhammed Jalige, had confirmed the abduction of the second-class Emir and others.