The National President of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, Bishop Wale Oke has said even if the Nigerian Government silences Nnamdi Kanu and Sunday Igboho, other agitators will rise to take their places. Kanu, who is the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) was recently rearrested and re-arraigned before a Federal High Court in Abuja.  Also, operatives of the Department of State Services raided the residence of Yoruba freedom fighter, Igboho, arrested over 10 people and killed two persons. The agitator, who escaped the raid, has since gone into hiding. But reacting on Thursday, Oke said the only thing that could stop agitation is good governance and equity. “The only thing that will stop agitations is good governance, and by good governance, we are talking of the government where everybody feels that they have an equal stake, equal opportunity, equal representation. “So long as some people feel marginalised and sidelined, there will always be agitators who will champion the cause of emancipation of their people. “We appeal to the government to make sure that there is equity in the participation and representation in governance by the people. Until that is done, agitation will never stop. If we silence Nnamdi Kanu and Sunday Igboho, others will rise.” Meanwhile, the National Secretary of the PFN, Cosmas Ilechukwu has said the body is praying for the government and that it plans to meet with the government in the nearest future to make its position known. According to Ilechukwu, the PFN will support any legal action taken by the Federal Government to keep the nation in unity and togetherness. “We are a law-abiding organisation, we are living in a nation governed by rule of law, let the action of government be according to the law. If what government did in arresting Nnamdi Kanu is within the ambit of the law, they are justified,” he said. On the issue of the constitution, Ilechukwu said the current document does not represent the people. “The 1999 constitution was forced on Nigerians by the military. It is a constitution that is corrupt, we need a brand new constitution,” he said.