Yoruba One Voice, YOV, a pan-Yaruba group in the diaspora, has affirmed their support for Yoruba Nation agenda and encouraged activist, Sunday Adeyemo, better known as Sunday Igboho and other agitators across the world not to relent in the campaign for self-determination for the Yoruba nation. This was conveyed in a communique issued by the group on Sunday at the end of a webinar conference.  Noting that the agitation for Yoruba Nation is entrenched in Article 1 of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the African Charter on People’s Right, it urged agitators to continue the movement despite threats from the Nigerian Government. “With the success recorded today, YOV has made history, as the largest Yoruba diaspora organisation seeking the Yoruba nation self-determination agenda. And with this, I have the conviction that we will definitely achieve this lofty dream. “We urge Yoruba people all over the world not to relent in the irrevocable campaign for self-determination for Yoruba people. “That the Yoruba Nation resolve to forge ahead with renewed zeal for the right to self-determination as entrenched in Article 1 of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the African Charter on People’s Right. “Immediate referendum to be supervised by the United Nations on the right to self-determination by the Yoruba Nation,” YOV said. The Aare Ona Kankanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, and other speakers at the conference noted that regardless of the challenges being faced, the self-determination groups must continue their agitation for Yoruba Nation. Adams urged other like-minded groups, within and outside the shores of Nigeria to join the quest for the liberation of the Yoruba race. Igboho, on Saturday denied that he was about to drop Yoruba nation Agenda or dialogue with the federal authorities. He distanced himself the offer by the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi, to intervene in the face-off between the government and Igboho. There has been no contact between the monarch and the agitator lately, Ighoho's spokesman, Olayomi Koiki noted. He also denied that Igboho was about to drop the agitation for a Yoruba nation.