The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has insisted that President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya formed an alliance with the Nigerian government to abduct the leader of the group, Nnamdi Kanu.  According to IPOB, the Nigerian Ambassador to Kenya negotiated the deals with Kenyatta on how to abduct Kanu and extradite him to Nigeria.  IPOB’s media and publicity secretary, Emma Powerful revealed this in a statement he made available to SaharaReporters on Monday.  In the statement, Powerful insisted that Kenyan President was offered money to betray the pro-Biafra separatist leader. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Nnamdi Kanu Meets Lawyers, Confirms Detention, Torture By Kenya Government, Heart In Bad Shape
0 Comments
3 Days Ago “The attention of the global family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has been drawn to the lame denial by the Kenyan Ambassador to Nigeria, Wilfred Machage, of Kenya's involvement in the criminal abduction of our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.  “This denial is another smart but belated attempt to cover up their atrocity but unfortunately for them, we already have incontrovertible evidence of how the dirty deal between Nigeria and Kenya was struck. Our intelligence gathering has revealed all those involved in this heinous crime.  "The fact remains that Kenyan security forces abducted our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu at the Nairobi International Airport and tortured him for eight days. Our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu was travelling with a British passport.  “Contrary to claims by the Nigerian Government, our leader was not travelling with any Nigerian passport because he is not a Nigerian. He was born in Biafra and he has since publicly renounced any connections with Nigeria.  “From our intelligence, Kenya betrayed our leader because of financial inducement and an offer of oil by Nigeria. The negotiations were midwived by the Nigerian Ambassador in Nairobi who bargained with President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Kenyan Immigration Authorities. Uhuru Kenyetta was blinded by the oil money offer and he consented to this wickedness," the statement read in part.  The group also stated that Kenya Police officers tortured Kanu for eight days without giving him food, adding that boycotting products and services from the East African country is still valid.  Powerful, in the statement, recalled how the late Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe helped President Kenyatta’s father when he was fighting against colonialism in his days, but the son paid back by betraying Kanu and IPOB demanding their freedom. He, then, vowed that Kenyatta would be paid back in his own coin for an act of betrayal against the IPOB leader.  “We have it on good authority that Kenya police tortured our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu for eight days without food. Kenya President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ambassador to Nigeria should be ashamed of themselves for betraying an innocent man because of money. But we assure them that they will pay heavily for this treachery!  “Our earlier directive to Biafrans to boycott Kenya Airlines, any business involving Kenya citizens or products made in Kenya or by Kenyans subsists. Kenya and her government have shown Biafrans that they supported the 1967 - 1970 genocidal killing and annihilation of the Biafran people.  “Kenyan citizens must rise up now and convince us that they are not in support of their President, Uhuru Kenyatta and Government in this treachery. They must take action against Uhuru Kenyatta to prove to us their disapproval of this evil.  “President Uhuru Kenyatta has bitten the finger that fed him. How quickly he has forgotten that his father Jomo Kenyetta ran to the late Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe for refuge when he was fighting for his own freedom during their own colonial freedom. But today he is paying us back by choosing to support a terrorist Government against Biafra. He will never escape the reward of Judas!” Powerful added in the statement.