The Governors of the southern region of the country converged in Lagos State for a meeting to discuss pertinent national matters on Monday, saying that arrests must be made in conformity with the rule of law and respect for the fundamental human rights. The southern governors' forum noted that it frowned on selective criminal administration of justice and resolved that arrests should be made within the ambit of the law.  In the past week, the arrest of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, and attempted arrest of Yoruba nation activist, Sunday Igboho, have led to widespread condemnation on the questionable manner of the operations. In a communique issued at the end of their meeting and signed by the Chairman and Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, the forum said, "The Southern Governors Forum at the end of the meeting held on Monday, 5th July, 2021 reviewed the situation in the Country and focused on the current security situation, constitutional amendment, Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB).Rising from the meeting, the Forum agreed on the following: "1. Re-affirmed their commitment to the unity of Nigeria on the pillars of equity, fairness, justice, progress and peaceful co-existence between and amongst its people. "2. The Forum reiterates its commitment to the politics of equity, fairness and unanimously agrees that the presidency of Nigeria be rotated between Southern and Northern Nigeria and resolved that the next president of Nigeria should emerge from the Southern Region. "3. Security; a. The Forum reviewed the security situation in the country and commends security operatives for their relentless efforts in restoring security and safety and commiserates with families and loved ones of those who have fallen in the line of duty; "b. Re-emphasised the need for State Police; c. Resolved that if for any reason security institutions need to undertake an operation in any State, the Chief Security Officer of the state must be duly informed; "d. The forum frowns on selective criminal administration of justice and resolved that arrests should be made within the ambits of the law and fundamental human rights."