The Islamic West African Province-Boko Haram terrorist groups have taken over the Gonisaleri, Dawayya, and Abari villages in the Geidam Local Government Area of Yobe State. A resident in the area told SaharaReporters that people in the community, particularly herdsmen are compelled to pay levies/taxes to insurgents. File Photo According to him, insurgents visit herders, count the number of cows they have and forcibly take one-tenth of the total number of cows. He lamented the spate of growing insecurity in the region while calling on the Nigerian government to immediately tackle the issue. He charged security forces to infuse the same energy used in going after the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, and Yoruba freedom fighter, Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho to go after the insurgents who have made life unbearable for the people. He said, “The insurgents go to where Fulani herdsmen are giving pasture to their herds, count cows and by themselves, they take one-tenth from the number. ”They will count the cows and take the 10th portion. How can terrorists take charge of everything, collecting taxes and the Nigerian government is sitting down and watching. There must be something behind it. ”The issue of that Igbo man (Nnamdi Kanu) that was arrested outside the country, if the Federal government can work with Interpol and get someone from outside Nigeria arrested, why are they not arresting the bandits, kidnappers, killer herdsmen, and ISWAP leaders? The case is so terrible. “The government also went after Igboho last week. What stops them from going after bandits and kidnappers that are killing and kidnapping children? “We cannot continue to take this, I am planning to write to the international community to ask the Nigerian government questions. People are suffering at the hands of kidnappers. Day by day, the insecurity is becoming so bad and they don't want us to talk but we must talk.” SaharaReporters had reported how Boko Haram terrorists recruit herdsmen, including underage boys in the area. It was gathered that the recruits are given arms and prepared to carry out the next scheduled attacks. “The training of herdsmen and collection of taxes from them is a common practice in Geidam town, Yobe State. The terrorists need food items, including meat and they are recruiting and training the herdsmen in Gonisaleri, Dawayya, and Abari villages in the Geidam Local Government Area,” a military source stated. “Terrorists collect one cow for every 40 cows as taxes; issue tags and receipts to the herdsmen. It is becoming an organised process,” he revealed further. SaharaReporters on February 12 reported that intelligence reports from security sources confirmed the establishment of new bases by terrorists in some parts of Yobe and Adamawa states. It was learnt that the terrorists established hideouts in Geidam and some other parts of Yobe. A security source listed other new bases of the insurgents as Tarmuwa and Yunusari local governments areas of Yobe State; and Mubi, Madagali, and Gombi local government areas of Adamawa State. From there, they attacked Geidam and then abducted three personnel of the Nigeria Customs Service. Boko Haram attacks have intensified in Yobe State generally since January, claiming many lives, including the lives of soldiers. They have also led to the destruction of livelihoods, government property, and public facilities. In February, Nigerian soldiers were killed in Goniri, a border community between Yobe and Borno states when a Boko Haram terrorist rammed an explosive-laden vehicle into them during a clash. The bomber, believed to be a member of the Islamic State West Africa Province faction of the group, had targeted the military convoy in Goniri.