Solicitor to Yoruba rights activist, Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho has demanded N500 million as compensation from the Federal Government for the losses incurred by his client after the raid on Igboho's house by men of the Department of State Services (DSS). The DSS operatives stormed the activist's residence in Ibadan, Oyo State on Thursday.  The agency's spokesman later issued a statement confirming the raid, disclosing that two of Igboho’s aides were killed and ammunition, charms and other exhibits allegedly retrieved from his residence. But, in a letter addressed to the Federal Government by Igboho's lawyer, Yomi Alliyu (SAN) of Chief Yomi Alliyu & Co, on Saturday, the counsel demanded N500 million as reparation for damage done by the DSS’ officers to his client’s exotic cars which included Mercedes Benz G-Class and 2019 Lexus car. He stated that the DSS carted away €1,000, N2 million, expensive jewellery worth millions, travel documents, amulets, Igboho’s iPhone 12 and phones of about 15 others living in the house including those killed by the officers and other yet-to-be-identified belongings. He wrote, “We hereby demand that the Federal Government orders an investigation into the actions of the various security operatives led by DSS that raided Chief Sunday Adeyemo’s house with a view to sanctioning them and release all the innocent people arrested and compensate the families of those murdered. Our client should also be paid N500m as reparation for damage to his exotic cars that include Mercedes Benz G-Class and 2019 Lexus car. We also demand a public apology.’’ The lawyer further said every Nigerian was aware that in all of Igboho’s rallies and open agitations for the self-determination of the Yoruba Nation, he always preached peace and warned his followers never to resort to violence. He added, “He always said that It is God and alale that will fight for the Yoruba Nation. We can boldly say that as people who followed his campaign, but not necessarily supporting dismemberment of Nigeria, that no casualty has ever occurred wherever such rallies were carried out. This must have been done in more than 20 Yoruba towns and cities as at date. “No demand to enter was made but rather they shot their way into the house allegedly killing seven people though DSS spokesman admitted killing two people which involved an old Imam that used to lead Muslim occupants in prayers and observing Tahjud at the time of the barbaric raid. A lady among the invaders was allegedly shouting, 'If you get him gun him down.'" Alliyu also alleged that the operatives were disappointed that they couldn’t find a single gun or ammunition in his client’s house, hence arrested two police escorts of Igboho’s guests and added their “guns to those harvested from their armoury to make members of the public believe that our client keeps militia or as stated by them, he is about waging war on Nigeria. Will this be with his mere amulets? People who know our client of over 20 years will testify that Igboho oosa does not carry gun on his person!’’