Aggrieved parents of abducted students of Bethel Secondary School in Maramara, Chickun Local Government Area of Kaduna state have chased away government officials led by the state’s Commissioner for Internal Security, Samuel Aruwan, who came to express sympathy over the abduction of their children. Bandits had on Monday attacked the school located on the outskirts of the Kaduna state capital, whisking away over 160 students.  The gunmen were said to have invaded the school around 2am. However, about 26 of the abducted students have reportedly been rescued by the police. SaharaReporters gathered that the gunmen also killed two soldiers identified as Private Salisu Rabiu and Ordinary Seaman Bilal Mohammed. The incident is the second abduction in the state within the last 24 hours. The development comes just hours after bandits abducted babies, female nurses and security guards from the residential quarters of the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Centre (NTLC) in Zaria, on Sunday. In a trending video seen by SaharaReporters, Aruwan, who is the commissioner in charge of internal security was chased away by some parents of the abducted students during a visit to the school few hours after the attack. The commissioner was forced back into his official car as the parents rained abuses and curses on him and the Nasir El-Rufai-led state government. “Go home! Go home! We don’t want you here, Go back, we don’t want to see here,” they were heard shouting in the video.  About 1,000 students and pupils have been abducted in Nigeria since December 2020. In June 2021, some students of Federal Government College, Birnin-Yauri in Kebbi state were kidnapped by gunmen who stormed the school. On May 30, pupils were abducted from an Islamic School in Tegina, Niger State. On March 12, bandits also abducted 39 students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization, Afaka in Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State. In February 2021, gunmen struck the Government Secondary School in Kagara, Niger State, abducting school pupils, teachers and workers. Also on December 11, 2020, 344 secondary schoolboys were also abducted from Kankara in Katsina, the home state of President Muhammadu Buhari, while he was there. Hundreds of schoolgirls were also kidnapped in Chibok in 2014 by Boko Haram, some of whom have not been released till date. In February 2018, 110 schoolgirls were also abducted by Boko Haram from the Government Girls' Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State. Five died in the process while others were later released, except Leah Sharibu, a Christian girl who refused to renounce her faith.