A civil group, International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law, has stated that the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, was given away by “some persons of his tribal stock” to the Nigerian government which led to his arrest. Intersociety stated this in a report sent to SaharaReporters on Wednesday, while noting it is worried over the safety and well-being of Kanu in the custody of the Department of State Services, where he may likely remain throughout his trial period.  The group, in the report signed by Emeka Umeagbalasi, Obianuju Igboeli and Chidimma Udegbunam, said, “The leader of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu was arrested on the Saturday night of June 26. He appeared to have been trapped by some persons of his own tribal stock over some lingering issues. "The International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law is not worried over the recent arrest and bringing back of the IPOB Leader, but we are deeply concerned over his safety, healthcare and upkeep in the custody of the country’s Spy Police where he may likely remain throughout his trial period. "The Nigerian Government must ensure the round-the-clock safety and welfare of the IPOB leader in its custody as it will be more catastrophically untamed should anything untoward happen to him. “If a national or international citizen is standing trial under presumption of innocence until found judicially guilty and he or she is reported to have fled the jurisdiction under which he or she was standing trial, it is allowed under the international law and through legitimate diplomatic means to use non-lethal measures to bring him or her back to face and complete his or her trial. "Exception to this rule is where he or she is running away from legitimate state persecution including attempts on his or her life and grave infringement on his or her other fundamental liberties. Under this, he or she is expected to be protected by the country that offers him or her temporary and protective shelter; otherwise he or she can be arrested and sent back to his or her country for continuation of the trial. “Therefore, it is on record that the IPOB Leader did not flee Nigeria out of his own freewill in September 2017 but he escaped from being assassinated by the security forces of the Federal Government of Nigeria.” SaharaReporters had reported that the IPOB leader was picked up in Kenya, as narrated by his family. SaharaReporters had earlier reported that the family of Nnamdi Kanu asked the Federal Government not to manhandle their son, who is currently in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS). Speaking in Umuahia, the Abia state capital, Nnamdi Kanu's younger brother, Emmanuel Kanu had said the IPOB leader stood on the path of truth and committed no crime to deserve any persecution. According to him, Nnamdi was only asking for the freedom of Biafrans which is their fundamental human right hence, his rights should be respected. He said the whole world is watching how the Nigerian Government will handle Kanu.