The founder of One Love Family, Sat Guru Maharaj ji, has described himself as the spiritual father of Yoruba Nation agitator, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho.  The Prophet also debunked news making rounds that the activist was arrested at Maharaji religious village situated in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital.  Armed state secret service agents had last week invaded Igboho’s Soka home in Ibadan to arrest him, killing two people, arresting 13 of Igboho's associates and destroying property estimated to be worth millions of naira.  But Igboho was said to have narrowly escaped the onslaught by the Department of State Services (DSS) operatives.  After a series of condemnations from notable Nigerians on the invasion of Igboho’s home, reports from some sections of the media last week suggested that the activist, whose location is still unknown, was arrested at the Maharaji religious village where he purportedly fled to after his home came under DSS attack.  Speaking exclusively to SaharaReporters, the founder of One Love Family said the activist wasn’t arrested at his residence.  Describing himself as the spiritual father of Igboho, Maharaj said the Yoruba agitator can’t be compared with “Nnamdi Kanu who has a radio station telling people to fight and fight.”  He further condemned the invasion of Igboho’s residence by the secret police.   He said, “Somebody living in Soka, they found him in Maharaj's place, it’s not true. That day, I wasn’t even there.  “As a spiritual father of all creation, everybody comes to Maharaj but on that fateful day, I wasn’t there. I wasn’t in Maharaj place, that’s part of the insinuation being carried about by the same set of people who came to drop (a) dead body here, they are everywhere telling lies about Maharaj.  “I saw him (Igboho) around two or three months ago, I am the spiritual father of all universe. Maharaj nation is the kingdom of heaven on earth. The relationship between me and him is not different from that of a father in creation who gave birth to a son. But I haven’t seen him for the past three months, I read about him and I feel so good about what he did in Ibarapa.”   On the invasion of Igboho’s residence, Maharaj added, “You can’t gang anybody (sic), the government of Nigeria should love Nigeria, they should recognise and respect the people of Nigeria as the most important aspect of Nigeria’s survival and success. So freedom of expression should be allowed.  "Everybody has right to present themselves, you can’t compare Ighoho with Nnamdi Kanu who has a radio station telling the people to fight and fight, even though we can’t be sure it is the Kanu’s boys who go about burning down police stations everywhere for any reason or so ever.  “Sunday Igboho stopped the killings going on in Ibarapa, that was how he won my love. I supported him in that area, he stopped those doing evil.”