A group, Concerned Advocates for Good Governance, CAGG, has written to the President of the United States of America, Joe Biden, pleading with him to intervene in the release of 348 students who were abducted from their schools by bandits. The Coordinator of the group, Olusegun Bamgbose had earlier given President Muhammadu Buhari's government a 7-day ultimatum to secure the release of the 348 students, who were abducted in Niger, Kebbi, and Kaduna states. Joe Biden About two of the students have regained freedom, while many others are still in captivity. In the letter to the US President, CAGG expressed concern over the safety and security of the students, especially the female ones who might have been sexually harassed. CAGG also said it decided to take the bull by the horns to ensure that the students regain their freedom within a few weeks, adding that it would not allow the case to end like that of the Chibok girls. The group added in the letter, “It’s no longer news that 348 students were abducted by the bandits in Niger, Kebbi and Kaduna states in Nigeria. “We are passionately concerned about the welfare of these innocent and hapless students who are victims of circumstances. “We fear what the young female ones among the abductees will be passing through on a daily basis. One cannot rule out daily sexual abuse of female students among them. “This is a gross abuse of their rights. We therefore passionately appeal to you that you use your good offices to magnanimously get these hapless students out of captivity. We seriously count on you to secure their release from captivity.” Bamgbose further said, “We shall go to any length to ensure they are released from captivity. There is no going back on this because we are prepared to assist in securing their release from the abductors. “The truth is that, if these abducted students were children of ministers, senators, I am sure they would have been freed by now. “One can’t imagine what the female ones are passing through in captivity. One cannot also rule out daily sexual molestations of the females among the abductees. “He has to intervene on humanitarian grounds. This is an issue that the international community should look into. “As earlier said, we won’t leave any stone unturned to ensure they regain their freedom. We can equally inform Nigerians authoritatively that we shall have a crucial meeting with the parents of the abducted students in Kaduna this weekend. “All hands must be on deck to secure the freedom of these abducted students. We won’t give up on them. We shall also expect the parents of the abducted students to pray and fast along with us on the 26th day of this month. “We are very optimistic that the students will soon regain their freedom. These students are our future generation. We won’t allow the bandits to waste them or discourage them from pursuing their dreams in life. We shall explore all lawful means to ensure they are set free in a short while.” On May 30, not less than 136 students of an Islamic school in Tegina, a densely populated town in the Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State, were abducted by bandits. The bandits reportedly seized the police station in the town and went round the town shooting sporadically into the air to scare residents before breaking into a private school where they abducted children attending Islamic lectures. The school, which comprises nursery and primary schools, also hosts Islamiyya students in the evening and during weekends. In a similar attack on June 17, bandits killed a police officer and kidnapped at least 80 students and five teachers from Federal Government College in Birnin Yauri, Kebbi State. The latest attack occurred in Kaduna State on July 5 as gunmen suspected to be bandits attacked Bethel Baptist School located in Maraban Rido, Chikun Local Government Area of the state, abducting many students.