The legal team of the Ndigbo Group has reportedly met with the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, to monitor the proceedings relating to the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. This was disclosed in a statement issued by the Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations to the Office of the AGF, Jibrilu Gwandu.  The statement stated that the position of Ohanaeze Ndigbo on the issue of Kanu demonstrated their recognition of belonging to Nigeria and succumbing to the rule of law. "The group showed a mature departure from the mindset of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra when Ohanaeze said they 'do not support the use of any form of violence' while channeling concerns and presenting demands. "By urging the youths to be law-abiding and sheath their sword as well as asking them to try to obtain a voter's card to enable them to contribute to national development, the position of Ohanaeze becomes glaringly constitutional and commendable," it read in part. Malami also stated that the current administration "respects the rule of law and does not advocate for the breach of law. Hence, with or without the so-called monitoring group, justice will be adequately served to Nnamdi Kanu in compliance with the enshrined provisions of the law." He also expressed hope that the group would be open-minded and guided by the rule of law to convey the court's judgment to their people in their local dialects. However, the President-General, Ohanaeze, Prof George Obiozor, who spoke to Punch on the telephone, stated that the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, led by him, did not send anyone to the Federal Government, adding that another organization using the name of Ohanaeze might have met the AGF. He retorted when asked if the Ohanaeze legal team met with the AGF. "Ohanaeze legal team? I don't know about that one. I don't know about the Ohanaeze legal team; we haven't sent a legal team. "I don't know about that, Ohanaeze. Maybe it is another Ohanaeze wherever, but the Ohanaeze worldwide, the one led by me, has not sent any legal team yet to him (Malami). We constituted our team just on Saturday led by the Ohanaeze national legal adviser," he said.