The Department of State Services (DSS) has finally agreed to allow the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu to meet with his lawyers. This was disclosed by Nnamdi Kanu’s counsel, Ifeanyi Ejiofor on his Twitter handle on Friday.  “Update, Thankfully, our effort is yielding the desired result, We have just received a communication approving our visit to our client- Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. Shall keep the world posted on the outcome, immediately after the meeting, later in the day. God is with us,” Ejiofor tweeted. Update,Thankfully Our effort is yielding the desired result,We have just received a communication approving Our visit to Our Client- Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.Shall keep the World posted on the outcome, immediately after the meeting, later in the Day.God is with Us.  IPOB members had demanded that the Nigerian government should allow Kanu to see his lawyers and doctors.  The group also stated that their leader’s health has worsened since he has been in DSS custody, adding that he deserves to his family members as well.  The pro-Biafra secessionist group revealed this in a statement titled, ‘Our Leader Must Be Allowed Access To His Lawyers, Doctors And Family – IPOB.’  In the statement made available to SaharaReporters through the group’s spokesman, Emma Powerful on Friday, IPOB warned that no harm must befall Kanu.  “Following the refusal of the Nigeria Government and her wicked security agency, the Department of State Services, DSS, to allow our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu's lawyers and family access to him in the dungeon of DSS secret cell, it is now confirmed that their real intention in kidnapping him and bundling him back to Nigeria is to kill him.  “The mission they could not actualise on September 14, 2017, when soldiers invaded his Afaraukwu home during Operation Python Dance is what they want to actualise now.  “His health has been deteriorating in the DSS cell as he has refused to eat their food since almost one week they kidnapped him. We demand that DSS should allow him access to his lawyers and family members for this is his lawful right.  “And his lawyers are being harassed and we pity them and Nigeria if anything happens to our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu the Nigeria Government and security agencies must understand the product we are made of and how prepared we are,” the statement read in part.  Also, in the statement, the group disclosed that there was a plan by the secret police to inject Kanu with a poisonous vaccine to kill him slowly, asking those behind the plot to abandon it.