A group, War Against Injustice, has alleged that men of the Kano State Police Command subject civilians to inhumane treatment and deny them their fundamental human rights.  The group, in a statement signed by its Executive Director, Umar Ibrahim Umar, said police officers in the state engage in many professional misconducts defying police standards, regulations, and international best practices.  According to the group, the impunity at which the officers carry out extortion and other illegal acts could be attributed to the failure of the state government to constitute a Judicial Panel to investigate cases of police brutality in Kano State.  War Against Justice said it had written to the Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje as regards this but got no response. Similarly, the group noted that a complaint letter sent to the State Commissioner of Police over the unconstitutional acts of its officers was never acknowledged.  The group called on the government to investigate the allegations and ensure appropriate prosecution of guilty offenders to serve as a deterrence to others.  The statement read, “We are the executive members of War Against Injustice a Non-governmental organization based in Kano State. The main objective is to create awareness against social, political, violation of fundamental rights and other forms of injustices in society.  “We have been watching with the greatest dismay and concerned that some of the Police Officers with the Kano State Command have been engaging themselves in many professional misconducts which lead to allegation upon allegations of violations and breaches fundamental rights of the innocent people in Kano State.  “Some state governments in Nigeria (such as Lagos State) had inaugurated a Judicial Panel of Inquiry to hear and listen to the grievances of the citizens on police brutality and yet to no avail in Kano State.  ”On December 11, 2020, we sent our application to Kano State Governor titled 'Request to Constitute a Judicial Panel of Inquiry into the police brutality in Kano State but there is no any action or response from the government of Kano State.  “Several police officers have been allegedly indicted of extra-judicial killings, inhuman and degrading treatment to the inhabitants of Kano State.  “These attitudes are unbecoming and are against the police standards, regulations, and international best practices on police operations.  “In recent time, we sent a complaint to Kano State Commissioner of Police over the unconstitutional acts of harassment and violations of fundamental rights of innocent youths in the state yet neither we saw nor received any response.  “The good people of Kano State are law-abiding citizens, violations of these inviolable rights are contrary to the right given by law both nationally and internationally. The police are duty-bound by the provision of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) to protect the lives and properties of the people of Kano State."