A source in the Southern Kaduna area of Kaduna State has narrated how a brother of one of the students killed during a protest, was beaten by soldiers when he requested for the corpse of his brother. SaharaReporters had reported how students of the Kaduna State College of Education, Gidan Waya, Jema’a Local Government Area of Kaduna state, who were protesting over hike in their school fees were shot by security operatives.  Hundreds of the students had gathered at the school gate to protest the hike by the Nasir El-Rufai-led state government but met resistance from the security agents drafted to foil the protest. The source who spoke with SaharaReporters said three students were killed though the school only confirmed that two students were killed. He stated that the colleagues of the first student who was confirmed killed by the soldiers, had sent a word to his family and the father of the deceased had sent a younger man to retrieve the corpse for burial. However, it was stated that the young man was beaten mercilessly by the soldiers and sent back home. 



See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Many Feared Dead As Security Operatives Shoot Students Protesting Tuition Hike In Kaduna
0 Comments
1 Week Ago He said, “Three students died from the soldiers' attack on the students. The school has been closed for now. It was just a simple protest by the students over the increment in the school fees so when the soldiers came, it is not like the students were armed, they shot at them. Two died instantly and the third person died at the hospital, it is three students that died. “The students who were shot dead were from Southern Kaduna. The first student that was shot, his colleagues called his family that he had been shot and the father sent his elder brother to go and confirm so when he got there, the soldiers had already taken the corpse to their barracks; the soldiers didn't even know three students were killed. “The father of the first student asked the elder brother to go and confirm. On getting there, he was told the soldiers had taken the corpse so he went to ask the soldiers, they started beating him. He was not detained but beaten to stupor before they sent him back home.” But, in a recent development, the remains of the deceased have been laid to rest.