Two soldiers were killed on Monday night by Boko Haram terrorists in Damasak town, Mobbar Local Government of Borno State. A military source told SaharaReporters that the soldiers' death was caused by the negligence of the Brigade Commander, SS Tilawan, who deployed soldiers to an enclosed space without the right equipment. File Photo The source told SaharaReporters that terrorists had killed 26 soldiers within six months of the deployment of the Brigadier General to the area, which was formerly a no-go area for terrorists. According to him, the Brigade Commander has subjected soldiers to untold hardship that led to the resignation of about seven soldiers from the military base. He called on the international community and Chief of Defence Staff to look into the plights of the soldiers at Damasak military base and investigate the Brigade Commander to know what could likely be the causes of the deaths. He also urged the Chief of Army Staff, Farouk Yahaya, and Chief of Defence Staff, Lucky Irabor, to investigate SS Tilawan. He said, "Brigade Commander, Brigadier General SS Tilawan. Boko Haram terrorists have been attacking here since he came to Damasak. "Yesterday, he dismissed two soldiers, these are people that have spent 21 years in service and he dismissed them for no reason. He deranked some people yesterday. "We were still sympathizing with them then later at night; Boko Haram killed two soldiers at Damasak town at night. "Tilawan took soldiers there and caged them with a barbed wire in the name of performing duty. Then at night, Boko Haram terrorists came on foot but our soldiers do not have night vision goggles to see at night; the Boko Haram guys came to steal two vehicles there and killed the soldiers. "The helicopter that came to evacuate their dead bodies just left here now. This is the same Brigadier General SS Tilawan that more than a battalion died during his regime in Jos. "This is the same man that 24 soldiers ( plus today's death making 26 soldiers) have died under his command within six months that he came to Damasak. "This man has come to disorganize everything, every pattern was changed. These people that died have stayed in this operation for five years plus, going to six years, yet the Nigerian Army has refused to change those of us here for overstay." Read the rest of his story below: "No good welfare, people are still dying for nothing. A soldier will have a problem; the commander will not release him to go and solve that problem, his mother might die, he will not be allowed to go for the burial. Many things are happening at the same time. "No matter what you want to do, even if you cry, he will not release you. A soldier will have a wedding, the commander will not release the person, even if the soldier cries out blood, nothing will happen. He will not allow the person to go for the wedding till the day he wishes but immediately a soldier dies, the Commander will be the one to call a helicopter to come and take the dead body just as they took the two soldiers that died yesterday night. "Some other soldiers are even missing up till now. They have not been located. I don't know what the Chief of Army staff is waiting for before querying this man SS Tilawan whose command is to lose souls. This is what happened in Jos; the same Tilawan took people he was training in a bus. They died, till today, nothing happened, no investigation. " I don't blame the chief of army staff; all of them are dancing to the same tune. If not, why should someone like the former Chief of Army staff still be alive, someone that thousands of soldiers died under him? The next thing the Nigerian government will do is compensate him with an ambassadorial position to carry out another terrorist act over there. "Since they have refused to come and change us after six years here, they will come by force; the COAS will hear what will happen that will make him change us; it seems he wants to damage his regime. "Does he not know that the routine in defense is that overstay soldiers must be changed, other things must also be looked into. I'm not even calling on COAS but the Defence Chief should come and see what is going on in 5 brigade Damasak; the Brigade Commander has ruined everything; he thinks the Nigerian Army is a company. " We are very angry. Two soldiers were dismissed yesterday by the same man and that same night; we lost two soldiers again because of the negligence of the same person. "Seven people have left the Army in our Brigade here since this man came, because of hardship, starvation, and no equipment. The commander is just like a colonial master that wants to kill us; how can someone serve for many years and be dismissed for no reason because they refuse to accept unlawful orders? " Let there be an investigation to know whether what we are saying is a lie. Nigeria should come to our rescue."