The identities of the two Nigerian soldiers killed by gunmen suspected to be bandits during an attack on Bethel Secondary School in Maramara, Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna have been revealed. The deceased are Private Salisu Rabiu and Ordinary Seaman Bilal Mohammed, a source told SaharaReporters. Photo of Private Salisu Rabiu Bandits on Monday attacked the school located on the outskirts of the Kaduna state capital, whisking away over 150 students. The gunmen also shot the two soldiers dead. “An officer of the Nigerian Army, Private Salisu Rabiu and that of the Navy, Ordinary Seaman Bilal Mohammed were killed by the bandits after the attack,” a source told SaharaReporters. Monday’s attack on Bethel Baptist High School was the fourth mass school kidnap in Kaduna state since December. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Bandits Attack Secondary School In Kaduna, Abduct Many Students 
0 Comments
1 Day Ago The incident comes a few weeks after some students of Federal Government College, Birnin-Yauri were also kidnapped by gunmen in Kebbi state. On May 30, pupils were abducted from an Islamic School in Tegina, Niger State. On March 12, bandits also abducted 39 students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka in the Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State. In February 2021, gunmen struck the Government Secondary School in Kagara, Niger State, abducting school pupils, teachers and workers. See Also






Insecurity
Mothers Of Abducted Baptist School Pupils Protest, Block Kaduna Road
0 Comments
1 Day Ago Also on December 11, 2020, 344 secondary schoolboys were also abducted from Kankara in Katsina, the home state of President Muhammadu Buhari, while he was there. Hundreds of schoolgirls were also kidnapped in Chibok in 2014 by Boko Haram, some of whom have not been released till date. In February 2018, 110 schoolgirls were also abducted by Boko Haram from the Government Girls' Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State. Five died in the process while others were later released, except Leah Sharibu, a Christian girl who refused to renounce her faith.