The Niger State Police Command has arrested a Catholic Church Catechist and two others for engaging in the sale of counterfeit currency of about N15,800,000.  The trio of Emmanuel Akazuwa, 42, Catechist Sabastine Dabu, 48 and Umar Mohammed, 50, were arrested in a hotel in the Kontagora area of the state while trying to get a buyer for the N15.8million in their possession.  Speaking to newsmen when he was paraded, Akazuwa, who said he is a farmer, claimed to have bought the fake currency from one Nifom at the rate of N150,000 adding that he hoped to sell it and make a gain from it to buy a commercial motorcycle.  He said that he met Catechist Dabu at a Cathedral Congress in Makurdi, who promised to assist him to sell the currency.  He said the Catechist called him and said he should come down to Niger state with the currency.  “This is my first time in this business. I wanted to just sell it and use the money I get to buy a motorcycle for commercial business. I know it was fake and it is criminal and that is why I did not use it all through the time I was given.  “I met the Catechist at a Congress in Makurdi and he promised me that he will get a buyer for me. I met him in Mokwa junction and from there, we proceeded to Kontagora but we could not sell it, rather, we were arrested,” he said.  Dabu, a farmer and Catechist in Kebbi, said he got involved in the deal because he was suffering and needed money to take care of his family.  “I have never done this before but the suffering was too much that is why I decided to get involved and whatever money I get from this, I will use it to help myself and my family.  “It was due to suffering that I decided to connect Emmanuel with Umar who said he will get a buyer for us.  “The person was meant to buy each million for N150,000 and we would have made money if we succeeded but we didn’t.  “As a Catechist, it is temptation that made me get involved in this. Nobody is above temptation.  “I am a Catechist in a Catholic church in Kebbi and I have not been involved in this before. I feel bad for being caught. I wonder what I will tell the congregation and my children. It was really temptation.”  The Niger police spokesman, DSP Abiodun Wasiu, said the suspects will be arraigned in court as soon as the investigation is concluded.