A former Director, the Department of State Services (DSS), Mike Ejiofor, has said the law should prevail on the matter of the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu. The secret police ex-boss, who said the news of Kanu's arrest came as a shock to him, however commended the collaborative efforts of Nigerian security agencies. Nnamdi Kanu While he said he did not have anything against the agitation of Biafra propagated by Nnamdi Kanu, however, Ejiofor added that the Biafra secessionist leader should lead by example at home in Nigeria, not outside the country. Ejiofor said this in an interview he granted to Channels TV on Wednesday in his reaction to the arrest and detention of Kanu. “Well, when I got the news I was shocked. Shocked in the sense that we were not expecting this kind of arrest and that shows the collaborative efforts of our security agencies. And the issue of his arrest is a major one,” he said. The security expert also said that Nigeria is on the verge of collapse through numerous security challenges, and blamed Nnamdi Kanu for the spate of insecurity in the South-East and South-South of Nigeria. “We must commend our security agencies because Nigeria, we must all agree that Nigeria is drifting to the crevices. We have a lot of security challenges and nobody is against Nnamdi Kanu's agitation for Biafra. "But, do it in a proper manner, not for criminality. He led a lot of people to lose their lives innocently with this agitation, and then he is outside the country propagating Biafra. “So the main thing for him, I believe is to come to Nigeria and lead his people, so that they follow him. but, not that you’re outside and people are losing their lives. I abhour criminality, that is the most important thing. “Even though, it must be noted too that Nnamdi Kanu has said that they are not responsible for the killings in the East, we should have right to life. sanctity to life. “He opened his mouth to call Nigeria a zoo. And he said that he had placed a N100 million bounty on a sitting governor. These are reckless statements. And I believe that the law should take its course,” Ejiofor said.