A group, American Veterans of Igbo Descent (AVID), has written a letter to Kenyan President, Uhuru Kenyatta to find a means of facilitating the unconditional release of Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). AVID expressed its displeasure with Kenyatta for abducting Kanu and extraditing him to the Nigerian government for seeking liberation for his Igbo people. Uhuru Kenyatta with Buhari The group, which comprises Igbo men and women that are serving or served in different security agencies in the United States, told the Kenyan leader that a Nigerian former President, late Dr. Nnamdi Azikwe saved his father, Jomo Kenyatta who was involved in similar agitation, from the same fate he was to suffer in the hands of British authorities. They berated the leader of the East African nation for betraying Kanu, by handing him over to the enemies that want to prosecute him for defending his people. See Also






Exclusive
EXCLUSIVE: Nigerian Government Asked Us To Abduct You – Kenya Operatives Told Nnamdi Kanu, Chained Him To Floor For Six Days
0 Comments
7 Hours Ago AVID said this in a letter signed by its President, Chief Sylvester Onyia, dated July 10, 2021, which was made available to SaharaReporters.  Read the full letter below:  The American Veterans of Igbo Descent (AVID) just received an urgent Intel we need to explore with you bordering on the kidnap/abduction of a political activist globally known as Mazi Nnamdi Kanu – a Biafra/British citizen within your country.  AVID is comprised of Igbo ethnic men and women who honorably served or are currently serving in different Armed branches of the United States Military. Under Title 38 of the U.S. Code, a veteran is defined as a “person who served in the Active Military, Naval, or Air Service, and who was discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable.  Veteran members of AVID are citizens from all the 50 states in the United States, born as Igbo men and women; and successfully served in the following United States Military Branches: 1. The United States Army 2. The United States Marine Corp 3. The United States Navy SEAL – Sea, Air, and Land specialists. 4. The United States Navy 5. The United States Airforce 6. The United States Coast Guard 7. The United States National Guard 8. The United States Space Force 9. U. S. Public Health Service (USPHS) Commissioned Corps Officers 10. The United States Army Guard, Air National Guard, Army Reserve, Navy Reserve 11. The United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.” The organization further revealed in the letter how the agitation for Biafra began a few years after Nigerian Independence and what has transpired till now. It also informed Kenyatta of how the Nigerian government sent its security agents to invade Kanu’s house in which people were killed in 2017, but the IPOB leader escaped.  The nation called Nigeria has never known peace since the amalgamation of the north and south by the British in 1914. You might be aware of the historic Biafran war which lasted from 1967-1970.  The war was a quest for self-determination of the Igbo people-an attempted emancipation from Fulani terrorist Muslims. Statistically, 2.5 plus million Igbo children, women, and defenseless men perished in that genocide.  Because of the gruesome rape of young Igbo girls and married women, unprovoked killings, land grabbing, massacre, maiming by the Fulani men with no accountability, Eastern Nigeria men pillaged, slaughtered en mass within their indigenous ancestral land with no consequences and grand plan by Nigeria Fulani Islamic-led Jihadist government to violently eliminate all Igbo Judeo-Christian ethnic people and repopulate our ancestral land with Fulani Muslims.  Nigeria government despicable act of support for Boko haram terrorists and Miyetti Allah Muslim Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN. This association is the leadership of Fulani terrorists’ groups disguising as cattle herders in Nigeria.  A credible Civil Rights Leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu (MNK) established the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), and a security outfit called Eastern Security Network (ESN) to protect our people.  Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has been a target for assassination by the Nigerian Government. There has been the deployment of the Army to his home to kill him an operation (coded operation python dance.) His home was riddled with bullets, 25 young men were killed, but he miraculously escaped.  We are therefore upset and saddened by your collusion with Nigerian Terrorist Government to abduct/kidnap an unarmed son and a Liberation Political Activist (LPA) whom you should have protected and celebrated in support of democracy and freedom,” the letter continued. The group went further to compare the fate of older Kenyatta whom Azikwe saved and how younger Kenyatta decided to hand over Kanu to his enemy.  Historical Underpinning:  A historical journey through memory lane shows that your father President Jomo Kenyatta was found guilty to be hanged by Britain because of his freedom agitation; same as Mazi Nnamdi Kanu whom you betrayed.  Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, the premier of Eastern Nigeria, used money from the Eastern regional government, hired local and international lawyers, came to Nairobi Kenya, and pulled out the head of Jomo Kenyatta from the British hangman’s noose. There is a street and market named in honor of your father in Igbo land.  Your father was accused of leading a terrorist organization called Mau-Mau just as Mazi Nnamdi Kanu whom you betrayed. Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe delivered your father from death by hanging, and you delivered Mazi Nnamdi Kanu to be killed by a terrorist Nigerian Government. Ironically, your name “Uhuru” means Freedom, but you stand against Freedom by your betrayal of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.  Do you not know that this Mazi Nnamdi Kanu whom you extradited to the Nigerian hangman is related to Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe who delivered your father from a British hangman?” The letter further said. While closing, the group ordered the Kenyan President to find to correct his anomalies by making sure the pro-Biafra secessionist leader regain his freedom.American Veterans of Igbo Descent Understanding:  Your government kidnapped a foreign Civil Political Agitator Mazi Nnamdi Kanu (MNK) and handed him over to the Terrorist Nigeria Government who embraces internationally recognized terrorist organization known as Boko Haram.  Your violent abduction and extradition of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu endangered his life for political views he shares with your late father. Your action tantamount to Ad ignorantum because you quickly forgot the help your father received from Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe (brother of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu), and without that help, you may not have been born.  Your government hostile and violent action of MNK’s seizure and abduction within your territory is a slap on the face of all Igbo Ethnic Nationality. MNK’s abduction by your security agents has affirmed the consequence, which violates MNK’s United Nations stipulated Human Rights. How can you justify your dastardly action of kidnap and extraditing MNK to the Nigeria terrorist Fulani Muslim Cabal leadership?  Mazi Nnamdi Kanu did not violate any known Kenya law or international law. You must as a matter of urgency ameliorate this degraded condition within a reasonable time and call for the immediate and unconditional release of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu.  Thank you in advance for your esteemed response, consideration, and attention to this matter.  God bless you and God bless the Kenyan people.