President Muhammadu Buhari urged the United Nations, in 2015, to grant the State of Palestine self-determination to make it a recognised sovereign nation. Buhari spoke at the United Nations Summit on Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform which was used to mark its 70th anniversary which held from 25 to 27 September 2015, in New York and convened as a high-level plenary meeting of the General Assembly. President Muhammadu Buhari In his speech, the Nigerian leader made a case for Palestinian people before the world’s governing body to be given their alienable right of becoming an independent country “without further delay or obstacle.” “We need to remind ourselves of the principles that led to the founding of the United Nations. Among those are peaceful co-existence and the self-determination of peoples. In this context, Mr President, self-determination of Palestinian people and those of us in Sahara (region), those nations that have been energized by United Nations have qualified for this alienable rights must now be assured of it without any further delay or obstacle. “The international community has come to fill its hopes on the resolve of the Palestinian issue through the two states solution which recognizes the legitimate right of these states to exist in peace and security,” Buhari said. He also reminded the UN that other African countries who had that kind of agitation of becoming sovereign nations should be granted such, as there was no excuse or reason to delay them, which he said to the applause of the participants. “This is why there is no more excuses or reason to delay the implementation of the long list of the security and resolutions of this question neither do we have the moral right to delay any people their freedom or condemn them indefinitely to altercation and blockade,” the Nigerian President said. However, this is six years since Buhari became the President of Nigeria, and has been vehemently opposing the agitations of self-determination of ethnic nationalities, using brute force to suppress the leaders and followers of separatist groups. In the last few weeks, the Nigerian government has arranged the abduction of Nnamdi Kanu, the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) from Kenya to Nigeria for leading the secessionist struggle for the people of the South-East. Kanu will continue his trial on July 26 before the Federal High Court in Abuja. In the same vein, the operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) violently invaded and raided the residence of the Yoruba separatist leader, Sunday Igboho, killing two people in the process. 