Yoruba freedom fighter, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has been arrested in Cotonou, Benin Republic by security operatives in the West African country. Igboho was arrested Monday night after fleeing Nigeria to evade arrest by Nigeria's secret police. Sunday Igboho A source privy to his departure from Nigeria said he had perfected plans to secretly escape from Nigeria through Cotonou and was heading to Germany. He was, however, nabbed by security operatives in the neighboring country. Speaking with SaharaReporters, a source privy to the incident, said, "Sunday Igboho has been arrested in Cotonou. He was arrested about an hour ago. "He was supposed to travel to Germany through Cotonou this night. He wanted to leave Africa through Cotonou. He was arrested by security operatives in Cotonou. "They are planning to bring him back to Nigeria." Recall that the Department of State Services had declared Igboho wanted after its operatives carried out a  bloody midnight raid on his residence in the Soka area of Ibadan, Oyo State. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Nigeria's Secret Police Declare Igboho Wanted, Parade His 'Foot Soldiers', Recover Arms, Charms During Raid
0 Comments
2 Weeks Ago  BREAKING: Department Of State Services Confirms Killing Sunday Igboho's Aides, Asks Him To Report To Nearest @PoliceNG Station | Sahara Reporters https://t.co/fPEIp8wWgv pic.twitter.com/Oi91pXzJGj  DSS Public Relations Officer, Peter Afunnaya, had advised Igboho to turn himself in to the nearest security. “Those cheering and eulogizing him may appeal to or advice him to do the needful,” Afunnaya said. “He should surrender himself to the appropriate authorities. He or anyone can never be above the law." Pelumi Olajengbesi, one of the lawyers representing Igboho and others arrested in his House, told SaharaReporters he had not confirmed the news of Igboho's arrest in Cotonou. "I will contact Yomi Aliu (SAN) to verify the news," he said.  See Also






CRIME
How Military Men Evacuated Bodies Of People Killed In Igboho's House With Cross Country Bus—Neighbour
0 Comments
2 Weeks Ago