The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has ordered an investigation into the killing of a 14-year-old girl in Ojota during the Oodua Republic Mega Rally on Sunday. SaharaReporters had reported how a stray bullet from the police reportedly hit the girl who was selling drinks in a shop, leading to her immediate death.  The police, however, denied the killing of the girl, claiming that she died at a far distance away from the scene of the incident. In a statement on Sunday by Moyosore Onigbanjo, the State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Sanwo-Olu commiserated with the deceased's family. The statement read: "Our attention has been drawn to the death of a 14-year-old girl in Ojota during the Oodua Republic Mega Rally on Saturday, 3rd of July, 2021. "We commiserate with the family of the deceased. The Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has ordered a thorough investigation of the death. A Coroner’s Inquest has immediately been requested in line with sections 14 and 15 of the Coroners’ Systems Law, Laws of Lagos State 2015, to determine the cause and circumstances of death.



See Also






Police
Yoruba Nation Rally: 14-year-old Girl Killed By Stray Bullet In Lagos
0 Comments
1 Day Ago





 "By Section 14(1) (d) of the Coroners’ System Law of the State: 'A report of death shall be made to any of the agencies for the report of death or the office of the Coroner and be subject to post-mortem examination where there is reasonable cause to believe that the cause of death was: violent, unnatural or suspicious.'  "Section 15(1) and (9) further enjoins the Coroner to hold an inquest whenever he or she is informed that the death of the deceased person was in a violent, unnatural or suspicious situation or believes an inquest is desirable following the report of a reportable death. "As a government, the security and well-being of citizens are of utmost importance to us. The state assures the public that everything will be done to ensure that the cause of death is known. The findings of this investigation will be made public in due course and appropriate sanctions meted out to anyone found culpable."