The British High Commission in Nigeria has acknowledged the receipt of the letter written on behalf of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, seeking its support as a British citizen, SaharaReporters has gathered.  In the acknowledgement letter sent to Kanu’s counsel, Aloy Ejimakor on Tuesday, 6th July, 2021, the British authorities guaranteed the protection of Kanu's welfare. Nnamdi Kanu Ejimakor said the letter specifically stated that Kanu will get "support and welfare" of the British authorities.  Recall that Kanu through Ejimakor petitioned the British High Commission, requesting "That Mr Kanu be granted every possible Consular Assistance to which he is entitled as a British citizen."  When SaharaReporters contacted Barrister Ejimakor, he confirmed receipt of such a letter but said that its contents are confidential.  In his own words, Ejimakor said, "Yesterday I received a response from the British High Commission acknowledging the receipt of the letter and telling me what they (British authorities) can do for Kanu as a British citizen.  "The content of the letter is highly confidential so I can't say more than that. I understand the public has a right to know the development but I cannot reveal all the content which is key to our strategy."  When asked about Kanu's health conditions, the legal practitioner stated that "They (Nigerian government) have not allowed him to see his doctors. They brought doctors through DSS (Department of State Services) but his health condition is beyond that. It requires him to see his special medical doctor because of the seriousness of his health issues."  The lawyer went on to say, "Even the British authorities know that only a suspect that is physically fit can stand trial, so they are going to see to his welfare.  "As his lawyers, we have to make sure he gets all his entitlements under the law. He is entitled to administrative or judicial bail regardless of the degree of his offence.  "But if he's denied, we'll take it from there. But we believe that based on the doctrine of presumptions of innocence, everybody is entitled to bail until they are proven otherwise."