A former Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, has said the ruling of the Federal High Court that she could serve without the certificate of the National Youth Service Corps has vindicated her.  Taiwo Taiwo, a judge at the court in Abuja had granted a declaration that Adeosun cannot be subjected to any penalty or forfeiture in relation to her occupation or assumption due to her NYSC certificate.  Adeosun had tendered her resignation in 2018 following allegations that she tendered a forged NYSC certificate as part of her credentials.  The former minister in an originating, summons with suit number: FHC/ABJ/CS/303/2021 filed on March 11 by her lawyer, Wole Olanipekun (SAN) listed the Attorney General of the Federation as the sole defendant.  The court, however, was silent on its rulings regarding an allegation of forgery of certificate.  In a statement on Wednesday, the ex-minister said the ruling is a victory for Nigerians in the Diaspora under similar conditions who desire to serve the nation.  Adeosun, who said she went through a “very traumatic spell”, noted that the court had further reiterated her stand on the matter.  The statement read, “My lawyers have informed me of the judgment by the Federal High Court, Abuja, in the case of Folakemi Adeosun v The Attorney General of the Federation (FHC/ABJ/CS/303/2021) in which the court, presided over by Honourable Justice Taiwo Taiwo, ruled that the Constitution does not require me to present my first-degree certificate or any other certificate, including the NYSC certificate, to be appointed a Minister.  “More importantly, he also ruled that I was not eligible to perform NYSC by virtue of the constitution. This is the position I have always maintained and am happy for this official clarification.  “The ruling vindicates me after a very traumatic spell. It is, however, not only a personal victory; it’s also a victory for many Nigerians in the Diaspora under similar conditions who are desirous to serve their country.  “I wish to thank God, my family, friends, my counsel, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) and numerous well-wishers for their love, care and concern throughout this difficult period, which has lasted three whole years.  “I wish to add in the light of the court’s ruling, I will at the appropriate time and without hesitation, take all further steps necessary within the law to protect my reputation. I thank you all.”