Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, has reacted to the attack on the residence of Yoruba rights activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho. The group condemned the style by which operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) invaded the Soka, Ibadan, Oyo State residence of Igboho around 1am on Thursday.  SaharaReporters had earlier reported that some of the occupants of the house were said to have been whisked away by the invaders while two persons were reportedly killed during the attack. Acting leader of the group, Chief Ayo Adebanjo in an interview with BBC Pidgin said the attack was a “sad reminder of what Nigerians went through under the inglorious regime of the late General Sani Abacha.” The Afenifere chieftain said: “We are now back to the Abacha days, when they decided to kill all of us. They bombed the house of Akirinade, they attempted to kill Pa (Ayo) Adesanya. Many others escaped by a hair’s breadth. “I have been saying it before, that this President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration's agenda is to Fulanise this country. They said they have information that Igboho has arms in his house. Fair enough; go there with an arrest warrant or search warrant and do your job. “Even if there was forced entry, then you should break the house? That’s to tell you the evil intention to kill everybody there. Is that the job of a democratic government? If you have a criminal, you arrest and prosecute him; allow the law to take its course. “In December 2018, they killed 800 Christians on Christmas eve in Kaduna. It is on record. He sent the Vice President there to stop the uprising. He did not send the Army and DSS after the culprits.” Adebanjo added, “They went to Agatu, Benue. (Governor Samuel) Ortom said he knew the perpetrators. They wrote him a letter that they were coming back. He went to Buhari to report. He did not send in the Army. “Now the whole of the elected southern governors, across party lines, came to the conclusion that the insecurity in the region is caused by killer-herdsmen. He ignored them. “The Presidency decides to exhume a law that does not exist. It is obvious that the President is not interested in peace, but pursuing a Fulani agenda. And it’s unfortunate.” Told that the secret service agents said Igboho has arms in his house, hence the raid, the Afenifere leader said, “My dear, it is arrant nonsense! Arrant nonsense! Is that the way to go in a constitutional democracy? To invade someone’s house at midnight? “That was how they went after judges at night, claiming they were looking for corrupt judges. No one says they shouldn’t arrest. But there is a constitutional procedure. “Has the President done the same thing with the known people wreaking havoc across the country? I don’t agree with violence. But is there freedom of movement and association anymore? So this is ethnic cleansing. “Igboho has arms? But are they looking at the action that caused that reaction? People are attacking him.”