The Nigerian Union South Africa has confirmed that business outlets owned by Nigerian nationals are among the places burnt and looted by rampaging South Africans protesting the incarceration of former President, Jacob Zuma. NUSA on Mondau in a release by its President, Adetola Olubajo, stated that the union embarked on a fact-finding visit to the affected towns and could identity "five businesses belonging to Nigerians looted and destroyed yesterday, Sunday."  The union appeals to Nigerians to remain calm and law-abiding but be vigilant in the face of the escalating attacks on foreign nationals. Olubajo said, "The leadership of the Nigerian Community in South Africa has urged Nigerians in South Africa most especially in various cities in Kwa Zulu Natal and Gauteng Province to be vigilant and adopt safety and security measures. "The union is highly disturbed seeing the extent of looting, destructions and violence Perpetrated by the angry protesters during our fact-finding trip to Johannesburg this morning. "Violent protest erupted in KZN province during the weekend after the incarceration of former President of South Africa, President Jacob Zuma. Over 18 trucks were set alight, businesses looted and properties damaged. These violent protest spread on Sunday to some cities in Gauteng most especially Jeppetown, Jules Street, Hillbrow, Alexander, Springfield Park, Vosloorus areas of Johannesburg.  "These violent looting and attacks are spreading rapidly to other areas of Gauteng and KZN Province. Cars were burnt and businesses belonging to both locals and foreign nationals were looted and destroyed by angry protesters. We identified five businesses belonging to Nigerians looted and destroyed yesterday by the angry mob. "It includes two car sales business outlet in Johannesburg.  "The looting and destructions of properties continue unabated till today. See Also






South Africa
Violence In South Africa Over Jailing Of Ex-leader, Zuma, Nigerians Lament Shootings, Loss Of Lives, Goods
0 Comments
1 Day Ago  "The violence is spreading like a wildfire. Information reaching us from KZN province is that Brookside Mall in Pietermaritzburg, Bridge City Mall in KwaMashu and other major retail outlets in Durban CBD were set on fire after valuables were looted. "NUSA appeals to Nigerians to remain calm and law-abiding but be very vigilant. Our national secretariat has already issued safety tips to Nigerians, we will continue to give such useful information to our people." SaharaReporters earlier reported that South Africans, early Sunday morning, rioted in major cities and reportedly shot live bullets at people, leading to loss of lives, with some Nigerians allegedly killed.