The Nigerian government has added fresh charges to the offences listed against the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, saying more evidence has warranted the fresh charges. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, disclosed that the new charges will incorporate fresh allegations against the IPOB leader. Nnamdi Kanu The charge currently pending against Kanu at the Federal High Court in Abuja borders on terrorism, treasonable felony, unlawful possession of firearms and management of an unlawful society. Malami, whose office is prosecuting the case, alleged that Kanu had since 2017, after he jumped bail, committed more offences. “He has, upon jumping bail, been accused of engaging in subversive activities that include inciting violence through television, radio and online broadcasts against Nigeria and Nigerian State and institutions. “Kanu was also accused of instigating violence especially in the Southeastern Nigeria that resulted in the loss of lives and property of civilians, military, para military, police forces and destruction of civil institutions and symbols of authorities,” Malami told newsmen in Abuja. The lead prosecutor at the Federal Ministry of Justice also revealed that the Federal Government would apply for leave of the trial court to amend the charge currently pending against Kanu, Vanguard reports. “I can confirm to you that the charge will be amended. Many things have happened since 2017 when the Defendant jumped bail.  He has a lot of explanations to give to the court concerning the offence for which he is standing trial and offences he has committed since the time he jumped bail. “There are fresh facts and evidence the Prosecution believe should be brought before the court. Don’t forget that the charge has also been amended in the past”, the Prosecutor who craved anonymity added. The government lawyer further revealed that some arrested members of IPOB’s Eastern Security Network, ESN, may likely be transferred to detention facilities in Abuja to be used as witnesses in Kanu’s trial. “Most of the ESN members that were arrested from various parts of the South East have already volunteered useful information that will assist the case”, the Prosecutor added.The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, had on Thursday, said the Federal Government would go after highly-placed Nigerians that collaborated with Kanu, irrespective of their standing in the country. He said, “None of Kanu’s collaborators, irrespective of their standing in society will be spared. “They will all face the full wrath of the law for their activities that challenge our nation’s sovereignty and threaten its unity. No one, no matter how highly placed, is bigger than the country.” The Minister however had acknowledged that Federal Ministry received calls for Kanu to be accorded fair hearing. “It is interesting that many are suddenly calling for a fair trial for Kanu as if he didn’t get one before he decided to jump bail and flee. “However, I can assure you that the fair deal that Kanu denied many of the victims of the violence which he instigated through his broadcasts and tweets will not be denied him,” the information minister added.