The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) says Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta will face the International Criminal Court for his alleged involvement in "abducting and repatriating its leader, Nnamdi Kanu to Nigeria". The group said it was a shameful thing for Kenyetta to have belittled himself by participating in the arrest and handing over of Kanu to the Nigerian government, adding that all other collaborators would be revealed and dragged to the international court.  According to the statement made available to SaharaReporters by the group’s spokesman, Emma Powerful on Thursday, the group called on its members to shun Kenyan Airlines and other products and services from Kenya, saying the country has become the enemy of Biafra. “We the global movement of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great and indomitable leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, express our disappointment with President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya and his Government over his role in the abduction of our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and his subsequent smuggling into Nigeria by the wicked Nigeria security agents. “We are still at shock why a President like Uhuru Kenyetta would stoop so low to collude with a terror-friendly Government like Nigeria under President Muhammad Buhari to abduct and dehumanise our leader for doing nothing other than demanding the freedom of Biafrans from the Nigeria bondage. “Based on our preliminary findings, President Uhuru Kenyetta was very instrumental to the abduction of our leader in Kenya. The treacherous action of Uhuru Kenyatta against Nnamdi Kanu and Biafrans at large is a clear violation of the 1949 Geneva Convention, and United Nations Code. “We still don't understand why Uhuru Kenyatta and some corrupt officials of his Government would prefer to betray Nnamdi Kanu and Biafrans? Is it because of Nigeria's oil money? Is it because of the paltry N100 million bounty placed on Kanu's head by some Northern charlatans? Why will President Uhuru Kenyetta sell our leader Mazi Nnamdi to the evil hands of the Nigerian government? “It is so shameful that Uhuru Kenyatta would belittle himself in a manner he has just done,” the statement read partly. The group stated that it cannot associate with the enemy of its leader as it maintained that Kanu was never arrested but abducted by the Kenyan government. Also, the pro-Biafra separatist group reminded the Nigerian government that no harm should befall its leader who is in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS).In the statement titled 'President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya will be Held Accountable for Betraying Mazi Nnamdi Kanu - IPOB', the group said Kanu belongs to many international organisations.  “By this wickedness and grievous sin, Uhuru Kenyatta has demonstrated his affection for the murderous Fulani terrorists ravaging entire Nigeria killing and maiming indigenous people in their ancestral lands.  “Uhuru Kenyatta and his partners in crime should get ready to meet us at the International Criminal Court, ICC. This act of terror against our leader, Nnamdi Kanu, a NATO citizen, a British citizen with a British Passport, and a member of other international organisations will not go unpunished. “As we continue with our investigations into this crime with a view to unmasking all the collaborators, we announce the following interim actions until further notice: “We call on all Biafrans both home and in the diaspora to boycott travels with the Kenya Airlines; to immediately stop patronising any product made in Kenya, and to boycott any business dealings with Kenyans. We cannot be relating friendly with anyone collaborating with our oppressors to keep us in perpetual slavery! “We also want to urge all Biafrans and members of the public to disregard all the concocted rubbish the wicked Nigerian Government and their agents have been peddling about how and where our leader was arrested. “He was never arrested but abducted. All this cock and bull story is to twist facts and blackmail our selfless leader who they have seen as the major obstacle against their agenda to completely Islamise and Fulani Nigeria. Nobody should believe these lies. They are only intended to demarket our leader and puncture his global reputation and teeming followership. “The global family of IPOB reaffirm our unalloyed loyalty, belief, and confidence in our leader, Nnamdi Kanu. Biafrans are united behind him in his current ordeal in the hands of our oppressors. We also wish to remind the Nigerian Government that nothing should happen to our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu,” the statement added.