The Aare Oona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams has pleaded with the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; and Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, to help Yoruba freedom fighter, Sunday Adeyemo, aka  Sunday Igboho at his trying time.  Adams appealed to the influential monarchs and South-West governors to intervene in Igboho’s travail, stating that anything that happens to Igboho will be a slap on the face of the entire Yoruba race, Punch reports. Gani Adams He observed that the highlights of the Yoruba agitators go beyond self-determination but also include insecurity.   Last Thursday, officers of the Department of State Services raided Igboho’s residence in Soka, Ibadan, Oyo State which led to the arrest of 13 persons while 2 persons were killed.  The secret police also declared Igboho wanted and the activist had since gone underground.  But, the Yoruba generalissimo made the appeal stating that “from my experience, it is difficult to fight the government and win.”  He was quoted as saying, “I appeal to our traditional rulers starting from Ooni, to Alake and other leaders, including our Governors who Sunday had abused and insulted – you know he insulted me too but we need to forgive and help him. We must not allow this to consume him.  “We are appealing to them generally not to allow Sunday Igboho to be consumed. The issue on the ground now is about the interest of the Yoruba Nation. Either you support self-determination or not, anything that happens to Sunday Igboho will be a slap to the entire Yoruba race. They should not forget that the issue on the ground is not only the issue of self-determination. It is also about insecurity – that some tribes are determined to overrun our own region.  “If you allow this to consume Sunday Igboho, it will create an advantage for the criminals, who have already invaded our farms and communities to cause a security threat.  “At the same time, I appeal to all agitators that they should not abuse anybody that defer or disagree on self-determination – that believes in the devolution of power. We shouldn’t abuse those who said publicly that they believe in the devolution of power. We should not be enemies.”