The students of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State have protested against hike in their school fees on the school campus. The students displayed different kinds of placards with inscriptions with messages such as: ‘Say no to school fees hike’, and ‘Reduce Unizik School Fees #My papa no dey pluck money from tree.'  One of the protesting students who contacted SaharaReporters on Monday said, “Our school fees went from N20,100 to N56,700. “Students are protesting today in Unizik. There is now no difference between federal and state-owned schools. “Year 1 students are paying fees ranging from N97,000 to N105,000; that's minus acceptance fee of N48,000, G.S of N17,000, departmental and faculty dues, many students, me inclusive are on the verge of dropping out. It's looking like education is no longer for the poor.”  PHOTONEWS: UNIZIK Students Protest Hike In School Fees | Sahara Reporters #unizik #FeesMustFall @unizikofficial SEE MORE: https://t.co/1mWY3V93Gf pic.twitter.com/sRG9bZAggi  On Saturday, the university authorities issued a press release titled ‘Re: Increment of fees for returning students of Nnamdi Azikwe University’ to debunk the rumour of hike in school fees. The statement was signed by the Acting Head, Information and Public Relations of the university, Chika Gladys Ene. The letter read, “The Management of Nnamdi Azikwe University, Awka has come to note the ‘rumour’ on a purported increment in tuition fees of returning students of the institution for the 2020/2021 academic session being spread on the social media. “For clarity, the University Management has not increased the tuition for students since harmonizing fees payable by students in 2019; which includes dues such as Faculty, Department, Association and the Convocations fees for the graduating classes. “As such, the news making the rounds of an increment in tuition is not only false but misleading and an attempt to cause unrest in the University. “We urge our bona fide students, staff and the general public to treat as fake, the news of the purported increment as it remains a false alarm, triggered towards destabilizing the peace being enjoyed in the University.” The students also issued a statement tagged: ‘Notice of a School-Wide Protest’ on Monday to inform the school authorities of their demonstration against increased school fees. The statement partly read, “This is to officially notify you of our school-wide protest scheduled to take place as follows, which came as a result of recent developments ranging from a hike in tuition fees and other fees, worsening security challenges within and around the school and other related matters.” 