A woman, Mrs Sharon Ibiyome, arrested by the Nigeria Police on Thursday for locking up her five-year-old nephew, Michael Ibiyome has been detained for deceiving the police. According to the Lagos State Deputy Coordinator of the Child Protection Network, Alhaji Lateef Akinborode who spoke with SaharaReporters on Monday, the woman gave a false information about herself.  Akinborode said she later confessed that her real name is Mrs Odeyemi Oluwaseyi Mary after interrogation. Recall that SaharaReporters, Thursday, published how operatives of the Lagos Police Area N Ijede and Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps rescued Michael where he was kept behind a fridge with a wound on his head. The culprit was arrested and the boy taken to Ijede General Hospital close to Ikorodu area of the state where he has been receiving treatment. While interrogating her, Odeyemi had also lied to the Police that she subjected his nephew to such ill-treatment for stealing and having sexual intercourse with a girl. But, Mrs Odeyemi’s mother, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Michael was paying for his father’s sin. According to her, Odeyemi got a loan from a microfinance bank in Lagos for her younger brother who is Michael’s father, but the latter disappeared into thin air when he could not pay. The old woman also told the police that Odeyemi has been paying the loan and maltreating the boy for his father’s crime. “The woman is a very wicked woman, according to her mother. Her name is Odeyemi Oluwaseyi Mary from Abeokuta in Ogun State. Meanwhile, she lied to us that her name was Sharon Williams from Edo State,” Akinborode said. “All the reasons she gave for torturing the boy were untrue. She said the boy was stealing and having sexual intercourse with a girl, but she could not substantiate it. “It was her mother that told the Police that she was making the boy suffer for his father’s crime. She received a loan for Michael’s father who is her younger brother. But the brother ran away when he couldn’t pay back the loan. “The mother told us that she has been paying back the loan to the Micro Finance Bank that she took the loan from for her brother, and that was the cause of maltreating the poor boy. The boy is still receiving treatment,” Akinborode added.