A video of the campaign ground of the Peoples Democratic Party has shown party members discussing how the convoy of Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State killed a young child in Ogbomoso town despite the denial of the state government.  In the one-minute video, the party members in an aside discussion expressed shock at the incident. Oyo Governor, Makinde’s Convoy Kills Young Boy In Ogbomoso During Campaign
SaharaReporters Media A middle-aged man in PDP-branded white attire was overheard saying in Yoruba, “The vehicles of the entourage of the governor have killed someone over there.”  “Really?” another person replied.  “We thank God who brought our governor, Makinde, to Ogbmoso safely,” the anchor was overheard saying on the microphone.   Makinde, on his Twitter page had on Thursday, said though the kid was killed by a driver in a Toyota Matrix that was not part of his convoy, investigation was ongoing into the incident.  He also said the driver responsible for killing the kid will be brought to justice.  Sources had told SaharaReporters that a young kid was on Thursday killed by Makinde’s convoy after the little kid ran into his convoy in Ogbomoso.  This incident was said to have occurred during the PDP’s campaign for this weekend's local government election in the state.  SaharaReporters learnt that Makinde and about 500 commercial buses had arrived in Ogbomoso around 3pm on Thursday.  "It is true. I heard it happened in Taki area this afternoon. The child was said to have been in the front of his mother's shop when the incident happened," a source had said.  However, Makinde, in his statement on Twitter, said, "I received with deep concern the report that my convoy ran over a child on our way to Ogbomoso, earlier today. Our preliminary investigation revealed that the child was hit by an individual driving a Toyota Matrix car who lost control of his vehicle. He was not part of my convoy.  "My heartfelt condolences go out to the parents of the child. May her gentle soul rest in peace. Investigations are ongoing and we will ensure that the perpetrator(s) is brought to book."