A pan Yoruba group, Apapo O’odua Koya (AOKOYA) has lambasted the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress and the South-West governors for opposing the Oduduwa Republic agitation.  The group knocked Tinubu and the governors, saying they work for the Muhammadu Buhari presidency and the Fulani hegemonic interests.  In a release obtained by SaharaReporters, AOKOYA said Tinubu and the governors could never be like the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, and had failed to achieve in 20 years what Awolowo achieved for the Western region in about seven years.  The group, in the release signed by Col Abimbola Sowumi (rtd) said, “The Governors of the South-West states cannot in all sense of responsibility speak for the over 80 million Yoruba people all over the world. Their Sunday resolution opposing Yoruba Republic was not unexpected given the narrow self-serving prism the governors view the future of their people having secured leadership through vote-buying and other fraudulent practices.  “It is appalling that the governors who claim to be representing Yoruba people made this empty and anti-people resolution in the month of May, exactly 34 years after the death of Chief Obafemi Awolowo. The governors did not consult the people they govern before claiming to speak for the same people. Not even members of their Houses of Assembly were contacted. They spoke for themselves and not for Yoruba Nation.  “You are Governors of All Progressives Congress, (APC) not Yoruba Governors. You represent Muhammadu Buhari’s political party, not a party of the Yoruba people. Your mandate and that of Buhari is the same. That mandate is anti-Yoruba in content and form.”  AOKOYA said the resolution of the governors promotes the destructive and parasitic interests of Fulani hegemony that is bent on strangling the Yoruba Nation.  “The Governors know they will no longer collect illicit funds like security votes which they do not account for. The Lagos Governor alone collects N2 billion security votes every year which he does not account for. They live in a whole city, free food, free electricity, free housing, about 24 vehicles, free medicare for them and their families all for presiding over the misery and agony of the people they continue to impoverish.  “Since 1999, (for) about 20 years (now), all the six South-West Governors put together have not been able to achieve what Chief Awolowo achieved in seven years. There is no industry established by any one of them since 1999 that employs up to 500 people except in their private business set up with public funds but for private profit. None of the states has a common cassava or vegetable farm. All they do is to prepare budgets every year with insignificant impact on the masses.  “The governors bought their votes. They did not secure legitimate votes of the Yoruba people. Every vote obtained was through brazen corruption. Every vote was bought with cash between N2, 000 to N5, 000. It shows how their mandate was secure through fraud and daylight robbery.”