The solicitor for the victims of October 8th, 2020 Baruwa gas explosion in Lagos, Akeem Fadun, has said the the state government is not ready to pay the N50 million demanded as compensation for each of the victims of the explosion. He told SaharaReporters that the government has decided to bribe the victims who are at least 30 in number, with the sum of N150, 000 each without consulting the appropriate legal quarters. Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu "We're asking for N50 million each for the people that lost their lives. They now set up tent to bribe them with N150,000 each instead of approaching us for settlement," he said After complaining to the government about the impending risk the gas plant posed to them, the community residents had received a notification asking them to swear an affidavit to bear the cost of the removal of the plant before the gas explosion occurred. See Also






Politics
Lagos Community Sues Government For Negligence, Demands N4 Billion Compensation For Victims Of Explosion
0 Comments
2 Days Ago According to reports, the Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development had previously requested the community to pay a total sum of N749,500 to the government before the removal of the gas plant could take place. On behalf of the ministry, Ajayi B.A.A ADTPS (TSD) wrote, "I am directed to acknowledge your letter dated 5th of February, 2018 on the above subject matter and to inform that the subject matter is receiving the necessary attention. "In response to to the letter, the Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development on 15th March, 2018 acknowledged the letter but stated that residents had to pay before the ministry could effect the removal. "However, you are to swear to an affidavit to bear the cost of removal if approval is granted.i. Six hundred and eighty thousand, five hundred naira only (N680,500) is payable to the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban development. ii. Sixty-eight thousand, nine hundred naira only (N68,900) is payable to the Lagos State Government."