Almost a week after his release from detention, Okorie Onyekachi Daniel, a former aide of Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi, and his friend, have announced N1 million contract for the renovation of the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) cell where he was detained. Okorie said in a post on his Facebook page that the sum would be spent on tiling the floor and repainting the walls of the cell in Abakaliki.  He identified his friend as Uka Franklin Chikaodili, who was invited along with him by the police. He said he was first held at the SCID cell for three days before he was moved to the Nigeria Correctional Centre in Afikpo, Afikpo North Local Government, where he spent 11 days. According to The Nation, he was detained for allegedly “defaming the wife of a serving commissioner and criticising the state government.” In the post titled ‘The joy ahead is greater than the little afflictions we see today,’ Okorie said he would sponsor a monthly football league for the inmates between June and December “with cash rewards per month.” He wrote on his Facebook page the police told him his arrest and detention followed “orders from above”.He wrote: “The last two weeks further justify my conviction to leave the eczema government of Chief David Nweze Umahi of Ebonyi State. “I was invited with my friend, Uka Franklin Chikaodili, by the police on March 14, 2020, for interrogation for a case that should ordinarily be civil. “We honoured the invitation. I was still writing my statement when the police, without even reading through, preferred a charge against us. “To perfect the bidding of their paymasters, I was deliberately charged to the magistrates’ court with the intent to deny me bail and remand me in prison custody. “I spent the remaining 11 days at the Nigeria Correction Centre, Afikpo. While in custody, I read new books and made friends. “In appreciation to God for the privilege to experience the Nigerian prison like many prominent world leaders, me and my friend, brother, and colleague, Engr. Uka, have decided to donate N1 million in contract to the Nigerian Police for the purpose of renovating the cell, including tiling the floors and repainting the entire cell. “I, through my foundation, Comr. O.O. Daniels Foundation, shall in the spirit of engaging the inmates, sponsor a monthly football league, starting from next month till the end of the year. The first, second and third teams shall cruise to their cells with cash rewards per month. “I shall also set up a legal team to assist inmates that are in custody for standing for justice.”