A journalist with the British Broadcasting Corporation, Peter Nkanga, who did an investigative report on a human rights’ radio personality, Ahmed Isah, known as Ordinary President, has cried out over various death threats he received since the report came on air last Monday.  SaharaReporters obtained some of the screenshots and voice notes of the death threats as shared by Nkanga who reported in the documentary how Isah allegedly assaulted a criminal suspect, who allegedly set fire to the hair of a six-year-old girl.  The BBC documentary had shown Isah, the human rights advocate slapping Susan, the suspect as well as how Isah abandoned human rights cases without explanation after promising to follow them to their logical conclusion. BBC Isah was subsequently criticised by various human rights groups and advocates who demanded and forced an apology on air from him days later. See Also






Scandal
EXPOSED: Brekete Station Boss, Isah Blackmails Government Officials With Human Rights Cases —Source 
0 Comments
5 Days Ago Nkanga, in a statement he shared, said he had however been receiving death threats from the supposed Isah’s supporters after his mobile lines were released on air for cyber bullying.  In one of the audio threats, someone threatened Nkanga that there was no hiding place for him. Another stated that Nkanga would be stoned to death as they already had his photograph and house address.  He said, “My life is under serious threat because of the BBC documentary titled 'Nigeria's Ordinary President.’  “I am facing harassment, cyberbullying and threats targeting me, my family, and other members of the BBC crew because I did my job as a journalist.  “My attack is not coming from the state, or opposition, or some militant group. My attack is coming from the public mob that Ahmad Isah commands. I am talking about a multitude of everyday people including gatemen (mine in my residence is an avid follower of Ahmad), taxi/keke/okada drivers, market sellers, business owners, shop attendants, people from all works of life and strata of society.  “I am talking of everyday people you meet anywhere and everywhere on the road, malls, parks, markets, church, offices, banks, etc, who are his fervent adherents. They have my image, they are threatening me on Social media, and now, my numbers were released to the public on Ahmad's live programme - my first number was released on May 20 and my second number released on Friday.    I greet u @nkanga_p .D job against @breketeConnect Family Human Right Radio/TV station with @BBCAfrica u did, we want to know ur motives! What d attached foto depicts, let it not be ur case. Be guided. Otherwise, if members decide to cook d food u started, u cannot finish it. pic.twitter.com/wTRkpuvcbk ...still wondering that a monster lady collected a slap, then @nkanga_p made an edited video 4 @BBCAfrica to air! I think his a.k.a shud now be "Africa_Blind Eyes". Dis video has exposed alot about d fake whom dat u r claiming to be! I see ur end as dat of Judas Iscariot . 2/2 pic.twitter.com/KGkmBduB6f  “Ahmad is a mob leader. He allowed my numbers, on two different days, to be broadcast live for his adherents all over the world to attack me. It was a clear premeditated action with malicious intent. Ever since, these people have been calling, sending SMS/WhatsApp threats to me.  “I have had to switch off my phone lines. I am afraid because Ahmad's adherents have told me they know where I live, and I will die. My situation is a very dangerous one.”  “Ahmad told his followers on his live programme that I, with the BBC crew, tried to kill him. He further raised prococative questions about my family, thus bringing my household into his target of attack. Right now I am in hiding. I have fled and many concerned friends and associates have told me not to return to Abuja for my safety.  “Please help me. I am putting relevant Nigerian security agencies, the media, civil society, the international community, and the Nigerian public on notice: Ahmad Isah has to know that if anything happens to me, my family, or any BBC crew, that he will be held responsible.”  The BBC also said in a statement that “it is taking the threats seriously and will report them to the police.  “It is completely unacceptable that journalists should suffer abuse for doing their jobs,” it wrote. Prior to broadcasting the film, the BBC repeatedly reached out to Ahmed Isah offering a right of reply to questions regarding accusations from his critics but he declined. Since the BBC investigation has aired, Mr Isah has apologised for his assault on the woman in the film,” the station said.