No fewer than two youths were allegedly shot dead by a security guard attached to the Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin in New Eruwa, Eruwa in the Ibarapa East Local Government Area of the state during the local government election on Saturday, SaharaReporters learnt on Sunday. The death of the victims led to a mob attack on the vehicle of the Speaker, which was set ablaze.  The name of one of the victims was given as Ebenezer, a security officer at The Ibarapa Polytechnic, Eruwa. Some online reports said on Saturday that the victims were hit by stray bullets from the guns of Customs officials. But a resident of Eruwa, Gbolahan Tunde told SaharaReporters on phone on Sunday that the claims were wrong. He challenged the state government to say the truth. Gbolahan who said he didn't know the identity of the other victim insisted that he was sure that there were two casualties. He said Ebenezer was working with Polaris Bank before he started working at the polytechnic as security officer, adding that the sporadic shooting by Ogundoyin's security agents led to the death of the victims. Another source who spoke on condition of anonymity alleged that a member of the House of Representatives, Yinka Taiwo and some armed men attacked some residents of Lanlante. "That was the first time I would see this kind of war in the same party. I heard they killed two in Eruwa but they didn't kill anyone here in Lanlante. But Yemi Taiwo was on rampage here. "There was no election here because people didn't come out. They cannot tell me that 1,000 people voted in Lanlante. Our people were just looking at them here. It will be better if INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) conducts subsequent council elections," he said. Meanwhile, the chairmanship candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 32 out of 33 local government areas of the state for the Saturday's council elections in the state have been declared winners. The Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) which conducted the election announced that the results of the election were postponed in the Ido Local Government Area of the state, due to omission of the logo of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) on ballot papers in the council. The chairman of OYSIEC, Aare Isiaka Olagunju (SAN), announced that apart from the entire Ido Local Government Area, where the election was rescheduled for May 29, fresh election will also be held in Ward Five of Ibarapa East, where the Returning Officer cancelled the entire votes cast following violence, and snatching and destruction of ballot boxes. Olagunju explained that Ibarapa East has 10 wards but that there were no major issues in nine wards. Meanwhile, the State Secretary of PDP, Wasiu Adeleke, has described the election as victory for the loyal supporters of the party. Adeleke said, "This election is a clear testament that our party is loved and our major responsibility is to maintain and sustain the love of the people. "I pray that Almighty God will give us all the wisdom, strength and capacity to do well for our people and lead them appropriately. PDP in Oyo State is proud of you and once again, we say congratulations to you all."