Midnight fire suspected to be an arson attack by hoodlums has razed the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at the Igbo-Eze South Local Government Area of Enugu State, Monday. It was gathered that the suspects who stormed the premises of the INEC at about 12am, scaled the fence before burning the facility. Illustration According to Vanguard, personnel of the Neighbourhood Watch group in the council area who were alerted by the incident rushed to the scene and saved the facility from being totally destroyed. See Also






CRIME
BREAKING: Two Nigeria's Electoral Commission Offices Razed In Ebonyi, Fourth INEC Attack In One Week
0 Comments
5 Days Ago Confirming the incident, the Chief Press Secretary to the local government chairman, Nkem Ossai, said, “It is true that the INEC headquarters in Igbo-Eze South Local Government Area of Enugu State was torched by unknown hoodlums. However, it was not totally burnt down. Only one room was burnt and personnel of the Neighbourhood Watch in the council area were quick at securing the official documents in the office before they were burnt. “The watch personnel scaled the fence to put out the fire before the arrival of fire service workers from both Udenu and Nsukka Local Government Areas. The hoodlums could not get access to the INEC facilities because the premises were locked. “The suspected miscreants set the facility on fire around few minutes past 12 am on Monday morning and ran away. I can tell you that no casualty was recorded.” Similarly, two offices of INEC in Ebonyi state were burnt by unknown hoodlums in an apparent arson attack last Tuesday. The incident was the fourth of such attack on INEC facility in one week. Last Monday, about six vehicles were razed when hoodlums attacked the INEC office in Enugu State. Also, on Sunday, May 2, one of its offices in Akwa Ibom State was set ablaze by unknown persons. INEC offices have been witnessing a series of attacks by unknown persons lately, particularly in the South-East and South-South zones. Recently, the Commission’s office in the Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State was set ablaze by hoodlums on a Sunday, a week after the Commission’s Headquarters in Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State was also razed by unknown persons.