Top bandits’ leaders in Zamfara State are now forcing abducted persons including farmers from communities to work on their farmlands. The bandits’ leaders also threaten communities in the state that farmers must not go to their farms until they have gone to cultivate the farmlands of bandits’ leaders as this year’s planting season approaches. File photo used to illustrate story According to Daily Trust, to heed the warning sounded to them, some residents have begun working on the farms of bandits’ leaders. A resident in Dansadau town identified as Bilyaminu Dansadau said some farmers from villages near Babbar Doka, a community located 10 km west of Dansadau town in Maru Local Government Area, had started mobilising to go and clear a farmland belonging to Dogo Gide, a notorious bandits’ leader. “They have since started mobilising to go and clear Dogo Gide’s farmland on Saturday. The bandits’ leader had earlier asked farmers around the area that they should work on his farms first before he could allow anyone of them to cultivate their land. “There is desperation on the part of the farmers as everyone wants to cultivate his land as the rainy season begins to set in. The armed criminals have for many years forced farmers to abandon their farmlands. Dozens of farmers have been killed, kidnapped and maimed by the armed criminals. “Dogo Gide and his lieutenants are taking shelter in forest straddling Kaduna, Kebbi and Zamfara States. Some weeks back, locals said they spotted him attending Jumuat prayer at Babbar Doka community. “There was also a time he came to Babbar Doka community and seized narcotics and warned any dealer of possible execution if he refuses to stop dealing in drugs,” he said. In the same vein, a resident identified as Babangida Magami told our correspondent that three trucks loaded with victims, including farmers from communities of Kurar mota, Ruwan Mesa, Unguwar Makeri, Mai Taushi, Danbaure, Hayin Madi and Chabi, had last Monday, worked on a farmland belonging to notorious bandits leader terrorising the area identified as ‘Black’. ‘Black’ had earlier warned farmers in the area that no one would be allowed to cultivate their lands unless they worked on his land first. He promised to guarantee farmers’ safety if they heeded his directive. “The farmers cleared the bandits’ leader’s farmlands last Monday and are now waiting for the rain to start so that they plant for him,” Magami added. The spokesman for the state Police Command, SP Muhammad Shehu, said they would find out the situation. “Give us sometimes let’s find out,” he said. In the same vein, the state Commissioner for Information, Alhaji Ibrahim Dosara, said the state government was not aware of the situation. “We are not aware,” he said.