The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said it did not kill Ahmed Gulak, the former Special Assistant on Politics to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. According to IPOB, Gulak was not a threat to the Biafra agitation and moreover, the group is not a terrorist network, so had no reason to assassinate the ex-Presidential aide. Ahmed Gulak The separatist group said this on Sunday in a statement by its spokesman, Emman Powerful in reaction to allegations by the nation's security agencies that IPOB killed Gulak. Gulak was murdered on Sunday morning in Owerri, the Imo State capital while trying to catch a flight at Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport. According to the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Bala Elkana, Gulak did not inform the security agents of his movement despite knowing the worsening security issues in the country. See Also






Insecurity
Imo Police Blame Murdered Jonathan's Ex-aide, Gulak For His Death
0 Comments
1 Hour Ago Reacting on Sunday, the Nnamdi Kanu-led Biafra secessionist group said, "The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has been drawn to the untenable allegation by the security agencies that IPOB was responsible for the assassination of former presidential aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Ahmed Gulak on his way to Sam Mbakwe Airport Owerri Imo State. "We therefore state without equivocations that IPOB knows nothing about the said assassination. In the first place, what threat did the late Gulak constitute to our cause to warrant his elimination? We had nothing in common with him and could not have in any way killed him. "Pointing accusing fingers at IPOB for this barbaric act is only meant to divert attention away from the real masterminds. This is the same way terrorists in security uniform commit various atrocities in South-East and turn around to blame IPOB for their crimes just to tarnish our global reputation. This is purely a smokescreen to justify their long awaited plan to declare another special military operation in the Eastern region to kill more innocent Biafrans." IPOB faulted the security agencies for trying to frame its members without probing the death of the late Presidential aide. "Instead of the security agencies to properly investigate the incident and possible factors they were switch to accuse IPOB of a crime we know nothing about. Did IPOB have the itinerary of the late Gulak to have waylaid him at the airport? "Before linking IPOB with the crime the jaundiced zoo security agencies should have first investigated Gulak's host, Hope Uzodima, as well as his political opponents to establish their possible involvement. "This is akin to the allegation by the Lagos Commissioner of Police who raised false alarm recently that IPOB and ESN were planning to attack Lagos State. "This was to conceal the plans by the terrorists patronising Nigerian Government to use their imported terrorists to bomb soft targets in the City of Lagos and blame it on IPOB. But thank God some discerning minds understood their antics and did not fall for their cheap propaganda. "We are not surprised that they quickly pointed accusing fingers at us just as they have always looked for every opportunity to incriminate us to frustrate our struggle for Biafra restoration. But this too will not fly because the world is aware that IPOB is a peaceful movement. IPOB is not a terrorist organization and does not spill blood. "Had the late Chief of Army Staff Attahiru's plane crashed in the East, definitely,  the so-called  Intelligence Agency would say it was IPOB that shot down the plane and everyone in Fulani controlled Sharia core North would believe it. For us, linking IPOB with the assassination of Gulak is simply to pitch the East against the core Islamic North as a cover and justification for another round of pogrom against Easterns living in the North." While saying the group in its mournful mood of its heroes, sympathise with Gulak's family, it also reiterated that it is after having sovereign nation of Biafra, so killing of politicians is not in its plan. "We are only after the restoration of Biafra. Assassination of politicians is not part of our agenda otherwise we would have killed the Efulefu politicians in the Eastern region sabotaging our struggle. "We are in mournful mood ahead of the May 31st Biafra Remembrance Day in honour of our fallen heroes. The terrorists in security uniform looking for any slightest opportunity to blackmail us should not cash in on the sit-at-home order given by our Leader for our fallen heroes. "The order is for Monday and not Sunday. People were freely moving about on the streets of Biafra without any molestations by IPOB and there was no way we could have singled out Gulak for attack because we a non-violent movement. "Once again we urge the illiterate and clearly unintelligent agencies masquerades as intelligence agencies we have in Nigeria to please leave IPOB out of their messy incompetence. We challenge Aso Rock to Institute an independent panel of inquiry to investigate the incident and expose those behind this gruesome murder of an innocent man. "Our hearts go out to the family of Gulak. May his soul rest in peace," the statement added.