The Catholic Diocese of Enugu has declared a one-week prayer after a violent protest about the alleged disappearance of Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministries Enugu, Fr Ejike Mbaka.  In his first public statement over the incident, bishop of the diocese, Callistus Onaga condemned the invasion of the cathedral by the protesters.  On Wednesday, some residents had staged a protest, demanding to know the whereabouts of Mbaka after he did not show up for his weekly prayer programme.  The priest later resurfaced and said he was summoned by the bishop who wanted to shut his ministry over his comments expressing support for Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).  The development comes amid the priest's row with the presidency over a controversial contract.  Around the same time, the presidency and the Department of State Services had warned that some religious leaders were working with external forces to overthrow President Muhammadu Buhari.  Onaga said the protesters desecrated the holy altar and destroyed properties after they violently broke into the diocesan cathedral.  In a May 6 letter to parishioners, chaplaincies and religious houses in the diocese, the bishop, therefore, called on the Catholic faithful to embark on “prayer of atonement and reparation” over the “heinous act”.   He wrote: “On 5th May, 2021, the followers of Fr. Camillus Ejike Mbaka of the Adoration Ministry Enugu, Nigeria violently broke into the diocesan cathedral church and desecrated the holy altar of sacrifice.  “Over and above this, they brutally vandalised the diocesan bishop’s residence, the cathedral parish house and the secretariat building complex.  “Therefore, I hereby declare and call for a one-week union of prayer in reparation and atonement for this heinous act against our central place of worship and the sanctity of the church.  “The prayer begins from Friday 7th May to Friday 14th May 2021. Every parish, chaplaincy and religious community in the diocese is obliged to participate in this holy activity.  “In addition to the traditional May devotion prayers (like daily benediction), the following prayers are to be offered for this purpose:  “(a) Five decades of the Holy Rosary, (b) Act of reparation in the Most Blessed Sacrament, (c) Psalms 51 and 23.  “I enjoin you to remain sober and keep the diocese in prayer. With divine assistance and grace, we shall overcome this challenging moment. May Our Lady, the Queen of May intercede for us. Amen.”  Meanwhile, Mbaka had explained why some unruly youths attacked Onaga’s residence during the protest over his disappearance.  Addressing his followers on Wednesday, the cleric said: “I thank God you have never attacked the wrong people. The DSS (Department of State Services) was not involved in what happened.  “But the Bishop gave an order that I should not come here (Adoration ground) from today (Wednesday); I should leave adoration house, parish house, that there will be no programme here for 30 days and I should stay silent for 30 days. So, I am telling you the truth about what happened.  “When Bishop asked me to go and take you people back to Adoration, I asked him what happened now because you told me that I am going to stay away and silent for 30 days?  “Then, he said I should go first and tell you people to go because things are getting worse.  “This is why people should understand how God works. I never disobeyed the church. People are busy misquoting me doing everything to close this ministry but by the grace of God they cannot do anything.”  Mbaka said Onaga summoned him over his recent comments concerning the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu and his connection to the presidency.