Altine Daniel, a Chief Superintendent of Police has been identified as the officer who shot human rights activist, Omoyele Sowore during a protest to demand an end to insecurity in the country. Sowore was on Monday morning shot in the right side of the stomach towards the hip by Daniel at the Unity Fountain, Abuja while he was trying to gain entrance into the place.  The activist was said to have been speaking with a detachment of police officers stationed at the public facility when the female officer fired at him.  WATCH: How @YeleSowore Was Shot By CSP Altine Daniel At Unity Fountain, Abuja During Protest Against Insecurity #RevolutionNow FULL VIDEO: https://t.co/1aJ1QbYnkX pic.twitter.com/xRsQdz0hrg  Protesters had converged on the fountain at 8:30am. But the police allegedly denied them entry into the place. Many people also sustained varying degrees of injury during the incident. Sowore was said to have been rushed to an undisclosed hospital.  BREAKING: @PoliceNG Shoot @YeleSowore During Protest Rally In Abuja, Rushed To The Hospital | Sahara Reporters https://t.co/FeXJRkKb3d pic.twitter.com/THFMzWU21W  Human rights lawyer, Inibehe Effiong, described the action of the police officers as barbaric. The lawyer said Buhari’s administration has declared war on the civic space. He said, “Omoyele Sowore has just been shot by a female police officer at the Unity Fountain in Abuja. He is being taken to the hospital for treatment. “The officer fired a teargas cannister directly at his right thigh. Sowore was specifically targeted. The criminal officer is said to be CSP Atine. I watched Sowore being shot live on Facebook. “This is what Nigeria has been turned into under Buhari. They've declared war on the Civic Space. The FCT Police Commissioner has fenced the Unity Fountain with iron and cables to prevent protests. “This is a criminal offence under the Anti-Torture Act of 2017.”  WATCH: @YeleSowore Rushed To Hospital After Being Targeted and Shot By @PoliceNG Officer, ACP Atine, During Protest At Unity Fountain in Abuja pic.twitter.com/YmEmyzCCXT 