A former Director of the State Security Service, Mike Ejiofor has warned that Nigeria is heading towards a state of anarchy as regions and states have resorted to floating of security networks to defend their respective lands and people. The ex-boss of the secret police added that it is a dangerous approach for geo-political zones and states to empower groups and individuals to bear firearms, insisting that citizens have submitted their fights to the government for protection. Mike Ejiofor
ChannelsTV Ejiofor disclosed this during a live programme, City Talks with Reuben Abati, monitored by SaharaReporters on Saturday. While he applauded to some extent the creation of Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed Amotekun, because of its legal framework, he criticised EbubeAgu for lacking legal backing and other necessary structures such as personnel and equipment. “It is a very dangerous development. We are heading straight into anarchy. We have surrendered our rights to government to protect us and people are now establishing their own various security networks. “To some extent, I agree with the establishment of Amotekun in the South-West because it affords collaboration. It affords unity of purpose among security operatives. And since the establishment of Amotekun, even though there is no society without crime, you agree with me that crimes have reduced in the South-West. “Now, I don’t understand the establishment of EbubeAgu because they have no legal framework, they have no structures of their own. It’s now they are trying to put a legal framework on the ground and trying to buy equipment. I overheard one of the governors in the South-East saying they’re trying to put structures on the ground. “How can you put the cart before the horse? Then you also have the Eastern Security Network established by the outlawed IPOB. These are challenges. It is like degenerating into a terrible situation where everybody is now,” Ejiofor said. The security consultant, further, lamented the recent decision of the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom authorising the local vigilantes to bear weapons in the state. Governor Ortom, Thursday, recounting how the state has been plagued with unending attacks and atrocities of the herdsmen and bandits, authorised the vigilantes to bear arms. “All the vigilantes must carry weapons that are licensed so that anytime there is external aggression, they must be able to rise up to defend themselves,” Ortom told journalists in Makurdi, the Benue state capital. Reacting, Ejiofor maintained that the governor lacks the constitutional power to instruct the local vigilantes to carry guns. “Only recently, the Lagos State Government signed a law banning the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission from handling corruption cases in Lagos State. How can that work? Now, Benue State Governor, out of frustration said he has given rights to vigilantes to bear arms. What part of Constitution gives him that right? He said it by himself that they will bear sophisticated firearms. “The earlier we sit down and convey a conference and say what exactly our problem (is), the better for us. When you go to the East, you have Biafra. In the South-West, there is Oduduwa, it is only the South-South that is typical Nigeria now in the South. And if they start their own problems now, you know what it is. The earlier we look at our nationhood problem critically, the better for us,” ex-DSS Director said.