A 34-year-old man, Okpegboro Avwerosuo has allegedly killed his roommate in Sagbama Town, Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. According to Tribune, Avwerosuo sold the vital organs of the deceased for ritual purposes to a pastor who is currently at large.  A neighbour of the duo who spoke on condition of anonymity said the suspect invited the deceased to come to Sagbama to join the motorcycling business and assured him that the business was flourishing because of the Isaac Jasper Adaka Boro College of Education (IJBCOE) sited in the area. It was further learnt that when the deceased arrived in the town, he hadn’t stayed for more than two weeks when Okpegboro struck him with a pestle in the middle of the night, crushing his skull and killing him in the process. The anonymous neighbour further explained that “after killing him, he dismembered the body, preserved the vital organs and put the other parts in separate sacks which he disposed of in the early hours of the following day. While he was disposing of the sacks, another neighbour who saw him and suspected his movements confronted him later in the afternoon about the whereabouts of his roommate. “The suspect claimed that the deceased had travelled back to Delta State for an urgent business. Not satisfied with his response, the neighbour forced his way into the room and saw bloodstains everywhere. The neighbour held him down and alerted the local vigilante who eventually called the police to arrest the suspect. "Upon interrogation, before he was handed over to the police, the suspect confessed that he had sold the vital organs of his friend to a pastor in Port Harcourt for ritual purposes and the pastor is currently at large.” Also commenting on the incident, the President of Salga Federated Youth Council Worldwide, Comr. Preye Keku Casey, in a statement, condemned the gruesome killing of the young man, saying that the youths of Sagbama should be on alert to check the activities of non-indigenes in the town as security tension continues to rise across the country. Parts of the statement read, “Just yesterday, the decomposing body of a young man was discovered in the bush by well-meaning Salgarians with several parts of the body already butchered into pieces and placed in sacks. The Nigerian Police, Sagbama Division, was alerted and it led to the arrest of a young man resident in Sagbama Federated Community, suspected to have been the perpetrator of the ungodly act. “The president, while condemning the act, calls on Sagbama youths to be very careful and vigilant as they go about their normal activities, especially in the wake of the rising insecurity level in the country. He urged Salgarians to be careful of the places they visit, those they associate with and keep as friends, and as well limit the time at which they keep late nights.”