Leaders of the All Progressives Congress in the South-West have expressed strong opposition to calls for the separation of Nigeria. They urged those indulging in such to desist forthwith, while they renewed their belief in the unity, stability and sustainability of the country. Bola Ahmed Tinubu This is coming amid calls for the creation of a Yoruba Nation in the South-Western part of the country. The APC leaders made their positions known in a communique issued after their meeting in Lagos on Sunday, Punch reported. According to reports, those who attended the meeting include the National Leader of the APC, Bola Tinubu, South-West APC governors; and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. Part of the communique read, “The leaders commiserate with and condole the President and Commander-in-Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari, the military authorities, families of the Chief of Army Staff and other officers who died, and indeed the entire nation over last Friday’s tragic plane crash in Kaduna. “They express their strong opposition to separatist agitations and hate speeches. While urging those indulging in such to desist forthwith, they renew their belief in the unity, stability and sustainability of the country. “We note with significant concern the security situation in the country. Terrorism and violent criminality threaten many areas, adversely affecting the lives and livelihoods of too many innocent and peace-loving Nigerians. “While mindful of the resource and other constraints facing the nation, we urge the federal government to continue to make the necessary expenditures and allocate sufficient resources to enable the military and security agencies to tackle the difficult security challenges confronting us. “For Nigeria to overcome these challenges, we must do so with unity of purpose and action. The desire for peace and the chance for a prosperous and just society is universal and transcends all regional, religious or ethnic divisions. “Sadly, many public figures have made statements that spark division and undermine the needed unity of purpose. We urge the government at all levels, security agencies, and public leaders across the country to do everything possible to prevent tension so that we sustain the necessary unity to defeat these challenges to our national security. All responsible Nigerians must speak and act in a manner that strengthens our common cause against these common threats to our collective peace, justice and development. “We restate our abhorrence of violence as a means to achieve either political or economic power and influence. We strongly condemn the violence of any form in any part of the country, regardless of the ethnic or regional identity of the perpetrators of the violence or the victims. Government must do all it can to protect potential victims and to assist those who have previously been victimised by terrorism or widespread banditry.” The South-West APC leaders, however, declared support for federalism and endorsed the position of the Southern Governors regarding ranching taken in Asaba, Delta State on May 11, 2021. The communique added, “We hold to the view that true federalism where more power and resources are allocated to the states will be an essential part in strengthening society and improving democratic governance so that we beat the present challenges but also engender durable peace and security. “True federalism and the reallocation of resources and authority that comes with it will empower the states to solve localised issues before they spread and transform into national ones. In addition to mitigating political competition for control of the national government, greater federalism will empower grassroots economic development and political reforms that will stand as bulwarks against the terrorism and criminality now experienced in too many parts of the nation. A hallmark of this enhanced federalism will be the establishment of state police forces. “We endorse the position of the Southern Governors taken at their May 11, 2021 summit in Asaba, Delta State, regarding ranching. We do so because such a decision will lessen tensions between farmers and herders while also helping the long-term economic viability of both the farming and herding communities.”