The killers of Ahmed Gulak, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain who was shot dead in Imo State on Sunday morning were arrested. The announcement was made by the Nigeria Police noting that the driver of the vehicle that took him to the airport was said to have been grilled by security agents and he described the vehicles the hoodlums used as a Toyota Camry 2005 (silver colour), Toyota Sienna 1998 model (gold colour), Toyota Hilux (white colour) and Lexus RX 330 (gold colour). Ahmed Gulak It was learnt that before Gulak was killed, the Imo Airport road was blocked by some persons. “Police teams from the special forces, PMF, IRT, Imo State Command Tactical Units who have all reached the scene of the killing were directed to immediately proceed on patrol and look for those vehicles. See Also






Insecurity
Imo Police Blame Murdered Jonathan's Ex-aide, Gulak For His Death
0 Comments
1 Day Ago “Fortunately at Afor Enyi Ogwgu junction in Same LGA, the police teams came in contact with the hoodlums with same vehicles mentioned by the driver. The hoodlums were said to have confiscated a trailer loaded with onions from the North at Enyiogugu, Mbaise, and were busy sharing the onions to the local population as they also took positions to protect themselves and attack any incoming security agents. Three people were killed in that incident. “The hoodlums on sighting the police teams immediately opened fire on the teams and the gallant teams returned fire and eventually fatally wounded 10 of the hoodlums during the gun battle while others were pursued as they escaped with their vehicles. Three of the four vehicles– Toyota Sienna, Toyota Hilux and Toyota Camry used by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB)/Eastern Security Network (ESN) terrorists for their operation were demobilised/recovered and 7 of the terrorists with bullet wounds were completely burnt down inside the Toyota Sienna and Hilux vehicles that caught fire during the gun battle. “Three Ak47 rifles, 1 English pistol, 5 Ak47 magazines, 92 Ak47 ammunition, several charms and 3 operational vehicles of the IPOB/ESN were recovered. “Serious efforts are in progress to trace and arrest several wounded IPOB/ESN terrorists who are hiding in the surrounding forests and villages. The 3 bodies of the IPOB/ESN terrorists not burnt down were brought to the police state headquarters while efforts to recover the burnt bodies of the hoodlums to the police state HQ are in progress.” Governor Hope Uzodimma's Special Assistant on Social Media, Ambrose Nwaogwugwu, said the arrest is a major boost in the investigation into Gulak’s murder. “I can confirm from intel from credible security sources that IPOB terrorists were responsible for the attack that murdered Sen. Ahmed Gulak and they have been apprehended, and scores neutralised in the process by our gallant security operatives.”