The Coalition of Northern Groups has thrown its weight behind the Nigeria Labour Congress in its ongoing strike action in Kaduna State and protest against the government. The group said the ongoing five-day strike embarked upon by the workers will check the excesses of Governor Nasir El-Rufai and his administration's abuse of privilege. Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai While the group commended the unyielding workers for standing their ground in the face of alleged state-sponsored attacks on Tuesday, it said the same tactic was used against it when its leaders were having a security meeting at Arewa House in the state sometime ago. In a statement signed by CNG's spokesperson, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, the group warned the state governor not to escalate tension with reckless utterances and actions. CNG also frowned on what it called the growing practice of deploying drugged non-state actors against peaceful processions by some political leaders in the state and commended the police for doing their job without prejudice. "We commend the police for refusing to compromise professionalism when state-sponsored thugs unleashed violence on workers who were merely protesting impunity. "We are watching events as they unfold and for the avoidance of doubt, if the governor insists on pursuing the path of brigandage to suppress the ongoing civil action by workers, he would certainly be called to account for any unforeseen eventuality. "While we restate our total support for the ongoing action by the courageous leaders of the organised labour and stand firmly in solidarity with the Kaduna State workers who have subjected to suppressive and inhumane policies of Elrufai," Suleiman said. He said the CNG would leave no stone unturned in pushing for a thorough investigation and prosecution of the political leaders or government officials behind the deployment of armed thugs on peaceful gatherings in the state, which is fast becoming the new normal. "We recall that the CNG had once suffered similar state-sponsored attack by armed gangs that disrupted its meeting on security at Arewa House. We find it unacceptable that armed thugs in their hundreds would storm the streets of a state capital, unleash violence on peaceful assemblies and vanish into the thin air," Suleiman added.