Human rights activist, and co-convener of the BringBackOurGirls movement, Aisha Yesufu, on Friday said she would not be linking her National identity Number with her phone numebrs because she could not afford to have her information with a “terrorist sympathiser,” making allusion to the Minister of Communications and Digial Economy, Dr Isa Pantami.  Yesufu on Twitter joined the growing calls for Pantami’s sacking over the alleged link with terrorism, despite the Presidency’s backing of the embattled minister. Aisha Yesufu She said, “Let me repeat categorically what I have said before. I WILL NOT BE LINKING MY NIN to my phone number! I will rather not have a phone line than willingly give my information and have it in the control of a terrorist sympathiser and his cohorts #PantamiMustGo.”  Let me repeat categorically what I have said before. I WILL NOT BE LINKING MY NIN to my phone number! I will rather not have a phone line than willingly give my information and have it in the control of a terrorist sympathiser and his cohorts #PantamiMustGo  The call for Pantami’s sacking or resignation came as a result of a sermon he delivered in the past which had him allegedly sympathising with terrorist groups – Al-Qaeda and the Taliban.  Pantami was, however, backed by the Presidency through the Senior Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, who said the minister was young when he made those statements and that his position had since changed.  Reacting through a video in April, Yesufu had said, “The Presidency is not Garba Shehu and Muhammadu Buhari. The Presidency is an institution and that institution should never be seen in any way whatsoever supporting someone who is now known to have been a terrorist sympathiser.  “We cannot be a nation that allows people who support terrorism to be out there in our public domain as public servants. We cannot have a minister of a sector that is so sensitive – as per our information, everything under that sector – be someone who is a terrorist sympathiser, whether has been, still is, repented or not.”