President Muhammadu Buhari has returned to Nigeria from Paris, France. President Buhari had departed Abuja, the nation's capital, for a summit in France on Sunday.  The statement by the Presidency before his departure, read, "President Muhammadu Buhari will on Sunday, May 16, 2021, depart Abuja for Paris, France, on a four-day official visit to attend African Finance Summit which will be focused on reviewing African economy, following shocks from Coronavirus pandemic, and getting relief, especially from increased debt burden on countries. "The summit, to be hosted by President Emmanuel Macron, will draw major stakeholders in the global financial institutions and some Heads of Government, who will, collectively, discuss external funding and debt treatment for Africa, and private sector reforms. "During the visit, President Buhari will meet with the French President to discuss growing security threats in Sahel and Lake Chad region, political relations, economic ties, climate change and partnership in buoying the health sector, particularly in checking the spread of Covid-19, with more research and vaccines." A statement on the Twitter handle of the Government of Nigeria on Thursday, said, "President @MBuhari arrived Abuja after an official trip to Paris, France."  President @MBuhari arrived Abuja after an official trip to Paris, France. pic.twitter.com/hu6kVkw0Mv  Some Nigerians on Tuesday protested in Paris, the French Capital while President Buhari was attending the Africa Finance Summit. The Nigerians who carried the #HarassBuhariOutofParis placards lamented that Buhari had failed the country and his government had been characterised by bad governance, bloodshed, killings and poor policies. SaharaReporters had on Wednesday exclusively reported that Buhari would be in Paris for at least four days, where he had also been scheduled to meet his doctors. See Also






Politics
Buhari To Meet His Doctor During Official Trip To Paris Saturday
0 Comments
1 Week Ago "Buhari will be heading to Paris for four days. He was planning to go to Kampala (Uganda) and travel to London, the United Kingdom, to see his doctors, but they opted to meet him in Paris. He will be travelling on Saturday," a presidential source had disclosed. SaharaReporters also reported how Buhari had lanned to attend the inauguration of Uganda's tight-fist dictator, Yoweri Museveni, and from there, let him visit the UK for treatment. But the plan was later shelved and the decision to send Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to Uganda to represent Buhari was made at the last minute when it appeared that the UK trip was not feasible.