President Muhammadu Buhari has lamented the loss of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and others who died in a plane crash last Friday, at a time the country is battling with security challenges. According to the President, the tragic incident will compound Nigeria's security woes.  Buhari said this on Monday when he received a delegation from the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, who were there to offer their condolences following the plane crash that killed Attahiru and 10 other military officers. The governors include the Chairman of the NGF and Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi and the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Caretaker Committee and Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, according to Vanguard. Buhari said: “This is a situation that only God knows when it will happen and it happened at a time when the security situation in the country is a fundamental issue. “And to lose choice officers has increased our problem but we know what we are in for and we will continue to work hard and pray hard so that God will give us the power to appreciate and apply ourselves to the problem. "The people who elected us, they know the promises we made within the time…the circumstances which we find ourselves…we will keep on trying and continue to do our best.” Fayemi who described the death of the officers as a blow, added, “We’ve read your statement and this delegation of governors considers it a duty and as part of our obligation as your representatives to commiserate with you over the loss of your gallant officers. “We know it is an event that has touched you. When we mentioned the necessity for a change of service chiefs, you were determined to get the best set of people, you gave your assurance and the military was beginning to feel the impact. "We know that this is a major blow and you’re unrelenting in your quest/commitment to ensure peace and security in our country. “It’s unfortunate the losses we have suffered. We only pray God gives both the families and the country the fortitude to bear the loss, pray that God gives our country greater resolve to continue on the path that the late COAS toed. “For us, we must defeat banditry, insurgency and criminality. That’s the mandate you gave them. This should not lead to any retreat or surrender on our part. "As you have promised, we know that our country will do everything to ensure that the administration will do all to take care of the families of the departed officers. It’s an indication of how protected the active officers would be.”