The Yoruba Youth Assembly, a Pan-Yoruba Youth Organisation, has condemned the comments of Yoruba nation activist and freedom fighter, Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho, concerning the late son of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye. The assembly in a release on Monday by its National President, Olarinde Thomas, and National Secretary, Oso Adedeji, stated that if Igboho is delighted "in the death and anguish of another fellow Yoruba", he is not different from the "intrusive Fulani-herders that he is allegedly fighting." Sunday Igboho



Igboho had in a video on Sunday said he had no condolence for Pastor Adeboye over the death of his third child, Pastor Dare Adeboye, since the popular cleric failed to support the agitations for the Yoruba nation. See Also






Politics
God Should Kill Children, Wives Of Elders Who Don't Support Yoruba Nation— Sunday Igboho Tackles Pastor Adeboye Over Son's Death
0 Comments
1 Day Ago But the group condemned the statement of Igboho, noting that it had not been able to find any possible connection between the death of Pastor Adeboye's son and the agitation for the creation of the Yoruba nation. The group said, "To us, even if Sunday Igboho feels Pastor Adeboye has not shown sufficient commitment to the Yoruba Agenda or the crusade against the invasion of the Yoruba lands by the Fulani-herders, what justification does he have to verbally abuse or make a sad mockery of such a prominent and bereaved Yoruba Leader and Pastor like Baba Enoch Adeboye who has just lost his son? "Secondly, what right does he have to place curses and utter profanities on other sons and daughters of Yoruba? Besides, since Egbon Sunday now derives so much pleasure in the death and anguish of another fellow Yoruba, we want to ask, in what way is he different from the intrusive Fulani-herders that he is allegedly fighting?" Olarinde and Oso maintained that Sunday Igboho should seek caution against his recent public statements and derogatory remarks, which entirely contradict Yoruba core values, predicated on "omoluabi" humanism. Importantly, they noted that it is not just an abominable act but also an intolerable defilement of sacred values to mock the dead in Yorubaland, describing the statement of Sunday Igboho as profane and impudent. They said, "Egbon Sunday seems to be basking in the euphoria of being called the Messiah of the Yorubas, whereas he is not. Or what type of a Saviour will mock or seek the death of his people?" The group warned Sunday Igboho not to forget the events that led to the fall of Afonja in the hands of Alimi just because he undermined his people, due to the same Messiah Complex and I-am-untouchable mentality of a self-imposed Yoruba Generalissimo, stating that no man is invincible except he who has the sincere love, backing and protection of God Almighty and his people. "We hereby call on all our traditional leaders, particularly, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi (Ojaja II) - the Ooni of Ife; Oba Lamidi Adeyemi - the Alaafin of Oyo; Aare Afe Babalola; Chief Gani Adam - Aare Ona Kakanfo and all other loving leaders of Yorubaland to please join us in correcting and cautioning Egbon Sunday Adeyemo against his ignominious debasement and ridiculous statements against our respectable and prominent Yoruba leaders, going forward. "We demand that Egbon Sunday should withdraw his statement against Pastor Enoch Adeboye and tender a public apology to that effect in the interest of peace and harmony, or face further lawful reactions."