Some students of the Osun State University (UNIOSUN) have alleged that the institution's management forced Ayomide Busari, a student of the school, to sign an undertaking while he was battling for his life on a hospital bed. Busari, who ought to have graduated in 2019, was reportedly called upon by the institution's management to come and resolve some issues of missing results for some courses he had taken as an undergraduate.  The deceased was reportedly hit by a motorcycle in the process of sorting out the issues and had one of his legs dislocated. However, he was immediately taken to a nearby trado-medical hospital where he started receiving treatment. A student alleged that while Busari was being treated, the management of the university found a way to ensure Busari, who was not in the right frame of mind at the time, signed a piece of paper tagged an undertaking to absolve itself of any blame in the circumstances surrounding the death of the young man. The student said this was done without the consent of any friend or relative of the deceased. “UNIOSUN management kept Ayomide Busari hanging around since 2019 for some courses they claimed were missing. They called him to rush down to the school to intensify the rectification of the issue of missing results that was never sorted,” he said. Some friends of the deceased who granted interviews noted that the school management in its usual habit of avoiding responsibility fabricated lies that Ayomide Busari refused to be treated in a non-existent medical facility. One of them said, “Ensuring student's well-being is one of the duties a school does. Neither Ayomide Busari's father nor brothers were called over the accident and his purported refusal to be treated in a teaching hospital at any point even though the school has a record of parents/guardians and next of kin.” Another student who spoke on condition of anonymity said, “How can an arguably most expensive public university in Nigeria be showing zero concerns over the well-being of students. Missing results look like a normal thing, and when it happens, students are usually the ones who bear the brunt by paying for an extra year and re-registering for the course if such a student is still in the final year. “Ayomide who was a spill-over student didn't only die as a result of a motorcycle accident while running helter-skelter to make sure he was cleared and mobilised for the next batch for the mandatory youth service. He had been traumatised for a very long time due to accumulated stress and pressure from his family who kept incurring the cost of his travel expenses from Ibadan, Oyo State to Ipetu, Osun State and back. "A university is a citadel of learning, not a community of sadists who would be asking for just too much from young individuals who have only come to seek knowledge,” the student said.