The suspended Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman, in February 2021 decried the level of insecurity and kidnappings under the President Muhammadu Buhari’s government, noting that the abductions of pupils in Kagara, Niger State, and Jangebe, Zamfara State, were condemnable. Usman on February 27 lambasted the Buhari government on Twitter, saying “we can’t go on like this,” which fuelled speculations that she was removed partly because she had fallen out with the strong powers in the government. Hadiza Bala Usman She tweeted, “The state of insecurity in the country that has led to the kidnap of Kagara boys and Zamfara girls need to be addressed urgently...We can’t go on like this! Rescue our children and Secure our country that’s all we ask ...#SecureNorth #SecureNigeria...”  On Thursday, President Buhari suspended Usman. Usman was reappointed for another five-year tenure only recently. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Buhari Suspends Hadiza Bala Usman As Nigerian Ports Authority Managing Director
0 Comments
15 Hours Ago She was first appointed as the Managing Director of NPA in 2016.  According to a release by President’s spokesman, Garba Shehu, President Buhari approved the recommendation of the Ministry of Transportation for the setting up of an Administrative Panel of Inquiry to investigate the Management of NPA.  “The President has also approved that the Managing Director, Hadiza Bala Usman, to step aside while the investigation is carried out. Mr Mohammed Koko will act in that position. The panel is to be headed by the Director, Maritime Services of the Ministry while the Deputy Director, Legal of the same ministry will serve as Secretary. Other members of the panel will be appointed by the Minister,” Shehu had said in the release.  Meanwhile, Nigerians have reacted on Twitter, saying Usman may have been sacrificed for criticising the government she was part of.  “So the truth you spoke has unearthed your sins out? Good luck in your future endeavours and sin no more after your probing. Meanwhile, ensure you don't go down alone o,” a commentator said.  Also, Mustapha Abubakar @ekeree44 said, “Sure you are right ma'am, and I'm not upset with what you have said because you are in need and dreaming of magical safe horizon with a rose garden. Not asking exactly why the abduction of Jangebe girls occurred few hours after the condemnation of amnesty programme by the president.”  Exposed:This is the tweet that got Hadiza Bala Usman parking. pic.twitter.com/igsSbrrbBy  Engr. Saadah M @MTuity1 said, “Ma, pls wo. Before you lose your position or DSS (Department of State Services) picks you up. Abeg stay put. We want you safe and secure. Freedom is a rarity here.”  Ahmed Salisu @Ahmed_Presidor said, “You are among the government officials, so have official opportunity to talk with those who are responsible for what happening to our there country, but not in social media. Thank you ma'am.”