Lagos State Government has announced ten weeks partial closure of Eko Bridge from Costain to Alaka in bound National Stadium for emergency repairs by the Federal Government from June 4 to August 13.  The state Commissioner for Transportation, Frederic Oladeinde, said in a statement that the repair was necessary to complete the rehabilitation works at the opposite side of the bridge earlier embarked upon by the Federal Government, hence the need for a notice of route diversion.  He said that pending the commencement of the rehabilitation works, alternative routes had been made available for the awareness of motorists to manage traffic during the period of repairs, as highlighted below.  "Traffic from Apongbon to Alaka, Stadium, Inner Surulere or Ikorodu Road will be diverted to Eko Bridge to access Costain Roundabout to Iponri through Alaka and Funso Williams Avenue.  "Similarly, motorists from Eko bridge will have to navigate their desired destinations through Costain Roundabout to Abebe Village( by Nigerian Breweries Plc) through Eric Moore to Bode Thomas to Adeniran Ogunsanya, to access Shitta Roundabout by Stadium under the bridge to Funso Williams Avenue to Dorman-Long Bridge and Fadeyi-Ikorodu Road.  "Motorists can access Apongbon through CMS Outer Marina Road to connect Ebute Metta Ikorodu Road to access their destination.  "Motorists from Apongbon can pass through CMS to Outer Marina to Adeniji Adele, Third Mainland Bridge, Adekunle to Herbert Macaulay Way, Jibowu and Ikorodu road will also be available," Mr Oladeinde said.  He appealed to residents of the state, especially motorists that ply these corridors, to take note of the diversion routes.  The commissioner further urged motorists to bear the inconveniences, as the project aimed to achieve a seamless, safe and efficient transport system that would meet the transportation needs of a larger population.  He, however, advised road users to comply with directives from the state's Traffic Management Personnel.  "In like manner, traffic directions and road signals would be made available to minimize inconveniences that may be experienced while the construction work lasts," he said.