Students of the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State have started a procession for a slain alumnus of the institution, Iniubong Umoren, a fresh graduate of the school killed by someone who posed as a prospective employer. The aggrieved students were seen in their numbers wearing black attire to symbolise mourning.  Umoren, a 26-year-old graduate of the university, who was also an orphan, had dropped a tweet on her handle last Tuesday seeking a job. Her tweet attracted many replies. She wrote, “#AkwaIbomTwitter please I'm really in need of a job, something to do to keep mind and soul together while contributing dutifully to the organisation. My location is Uyo, I'm creative, really good at thinking critically and most importantly a fast learner. CV available on request.” She was allegedly invited by a young man, Frank Ezekiel Akpan, suspected to have kidnapped her as she could not be reached on her mobile line. Umoren's friend, Umoh Uduak, had consequently pleaded for help on social media, after which Nigerians started tracking the location, phone number and other details of the suspect. Following available leads, men of the Anti-Kidnapping Squad of the Akwa Ibom Police Command arrested the perpetrator who confessed that he lured his victim to his house in the guise of giving her a job but ended up sexually and physically assaulting her, which led to her death. This was confirmed by the Police Public Relations Officer, Odiko MacDon, in a statement confirming the incident and the subsequent arrest of the suspect, Frank Akpan to newsmen on Sunday. He said the culprit confessed to the crime. A Twitter user, @Belyn_da, on Tuesday explained that the school authority kicked against the procession initially. She posted, “The procession won't hold because the Dean said he wasn't informed neither was the Vice-Chancellor." Some Nigerians under her tweet questioned if there ought to be any official information before such a procession. She later stated that the school management was deliberating on if the students should go on with their procession.