The 27 kidnapped students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Kaduna State, who were reunited with their families after 56 days in captivity, have shared ugly experiences in the hands of the bandits. The freed students lamented on Friday that some of the bandits are foreigners, adding that they all vowed to make Kaduna State unsafe until the government was ready to “settle with them.”  Tears of joy flowed freely from both parents and their children. At about 3pm, the entire premises of the college, located along the Kaduna International Airport, opposite the Nigerian Defence Academy, erupted in jubilation as heavily-armed policemen were escorting the students in company with the state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, and the state Commissioner of Police, Umar Muri. Narrating their ordeal in the kidnappers’ den, one of the freed students, Pamela Ibrahim, said the bandits said their grouse was with the government and vowed to unleash hell on Kaduna State.



See Also






News
How Our 27 Abducted Kaduna College Students Regained Freedom —Parents
0 Comments
1 Day Ago Ibrahim said, “Before they released us, the kidnappers told us that they didn’t have anything against us (students). They said they kidnapped us because they needed the government to settle things with them and wanted to be educated like other Nigerians. They need work and houses too. “They said if the government doesn’t settle with them, they will continue to make sure that Kaduna State is unsafe. They said they meant it. Some of them are Nigerians, others are foreigners. They spoke mainly Fulani (language) and Hausa. “There was an old man among them who prevented others from harassing us and anytime he was not around, we were beaten and insulted.” Another student, Zakariya Magaji, described the kidnappers’ den as hell, saying he would never wish the experience for his enemies. “The bandits need prayers. All that we have to do is to pray for them for God to touch their hearts. As for me, I have forgiven them for whatever we went through in their hands. The experience was hell.” Another female student, Sarah Sunday, said she and her colleagues were subjected to all sorts of dehumanising conditions, including not being allowed to take a bath while in the bandits’ den. Sunday said, “A lot of things happened while we were there. We were subjected to hunger. We were subjected to trekking and all sorts of dehumanising experiences. We were insulted but thankfully, they did not molest or kill any of us. They only beat us on the first day when they did a video of us.”



See Also






Politics
What Obasanjo And I Discovered While Trying To Rescue Kidnapped Kaduna Students —Sheikh Gumi
0 Comments
1 Day Ago Asked if they were fed at all, Sunday said, “The boys used to go and fetch water for us to cook. We cooked tuwo with miyan kuka, and tuwo with dry okra. We only cooked rice once, and we cooked spaghetti once too.” When asked whether the abductors used to leave them to go out for other operations, Sarah said, “Yes, they used to go out, but they always left some of their armed members to stay with us. “Even our male colleagues who used to go and fetch water were always escorted to the stream by gang members bearing AK-47 rifles.”