The Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), otherwise known as Shi'ites, has dragged the former Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu and former Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai before the Unted Nations and European Union for alleged killing 78 members of the group in three years during peaceful protests to demand the release of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. IMN in a petition dated May 28th 2021 and signed by Secretary Academic Forum of the movement, Abdullahi Musa called on  international organisations to take necessary actions against the perpetrators of the alleged crime against humanity. The group said it would not stop to demand for justice in the killing of unarmed and innocent protesters who embarked on peaceful protests against the continued detention of their leader, El-Zakzaky. The movement stated that two journalists and two police officers were also killed by the police while clamping down on the group between 2018 and 2021.  The petition, which was sighted by SaharaReporters, was addressed to the Country Representatives United Nations and Head of Delegation to Nigeria, European Union, with the names of the victims. The sect said the killing of unarmed protesters was a clear violation of rules of engagement and therefore called on the UN and EU to invite the former security chiefs who allowed the atrocities to be committed under their watch. The petition said, "The protest was started on Monday, January 8, 2018. Ever since then, and in less than four years, the combination of the Army and the police has with full intent murdered nearly four scores free-Zakzaky protesters, 78 to be more precise; 2 journalists, 2 police officers and many passers-by [Abuja residents]. "First, in the year 2018; on Tuesday, January 9, at Wuse Zone 6, by Sky Memorial, some FCT police officers shot Sheikh Qaseem Umar Sokoto in the leg which subsequently led to his unfortunate death on the 5th of February, 27 days after the incident. Yet, on Wednesday, January 10, they opened fire at Area 2, Garki. They killed 3 with cruelty- Aminu Ibraheem Gashua, Adamu Salis Dunari and Bilyaminu Mika'ilu. On Monday, April 16, they killed Ahmad Rufa’i at the National Human Rights Commission. "On Saturday, October 27, during the Arbaeen Symbolic Trek and free-Zakzaky protest, officers of the Nigerian Army killed 5 people at a time at Zuba. Two days later, Monday, October 29, soldiers of the Presidential Guards Brigade, a unit of the Nigerian Army, then under Brigadier General Umar Tama Musa, waylaid Sheikh Zakzaky's followers at Kubo checking-point, close to Mogadishu Barrack. There, they massacred 42 Ashura mourners on the march." The sect also called on the Nigerian authorities to release their leader and his wife, Zeenat who have been detained since December 2015 after a violent clash with the convoy of the former Chief of Army Staff in Zaria, which led to the death of many members of the group.