The management of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library has confirmed the gas explosion that occurred on Thursday. This was contained in a statement issued by the Managing Director of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Ventures, Vitalis Ortese, which was sent to SaharaReporters. OOPL Ortese stated that the explosion emanated when a pair of technical vendors were conducting routine servicing of the air conditioning units leading to a death of a technical vendor while causing serious injury to a second vendor. See Also






Accident
BREAKING: Two Feared Dead As Explosion Rocks Ex-Nigeria President, Obasanjo's Library In Abeokuta
0 Comments
9 Hours Ago He, however, clarified that every other person present on the premises at the time of the incident was safe. He also noted that there have been reports of similar incidents across the state in the last week, calling for a proper investigation by the appropriate authorities. The statement read, “The management of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library wishes to confirm that there was indeed a gas explosion today, at the main event Marquee of the complex in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital. “The explosion emanated when a pair of technical vendors were conducting routine servicing of the air conditioning units. “There have been reports of similar incidents across the state in the last one week, which calls for an investigation by the appropriate authorities. “The explosion, which occurred at about 11.04 am, unfortunately, led to the death of a technical vendor and serious injury of the second vendor. “The emergency team of the library immediately took action to prevent further damages and subsequently moved the injured to the hospital. Visitors into the complex were temporarily limited to contain any fallouts from the explosion. “This has, however, been restored after clearance by the fire services authorities. “The management assures that all visitors to the library, guests at the Green Legacy Resort, the pupils at the CCGK nursery and primary school, clients at the cultural villages, and staff present on the premises at the time of the incident are safe. “Management wishes to condole with the families of the victim that died, whilesending a get well message to the injured. “The management promise to keep to global safety best practices and wish visitors a good and memorable stay at the OOPL.”