Ayuba Wabba, Nations President of the Nigeria Labour Congress has dared the governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai to arrest him over the ongoing workers' strike in the state. El Rufai had declared Wabba and some other labour leaders wanted for economic sabotage following the strike action. Wabba at the protest yesterday
SaharaReporters Media NLC in the state had embarked on strike to protest against mass disengagement of workers and other alleged anti-labour moves by the government. Reacting to the call for his arrest, Wabba told Tribune Online while leading a protest, “Let him come and arrest me. It is not about me." “We are here and waiting for them,” he declared.  Kaduna state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, had declared Wabba and other leaders of the union wanted over the strike action embarked upon by workers in the state. See Also






Breaking News
BREAKING: Kaduna Governor, El-Rufai Declares NLC President, Wabba, Other Labour Leaders Wanted, Offers Reward
0 Comments
9 Hours Ago Wabba had during the flag-off of the action on Monday said that it would run its full course unless the state government attended to the workers grievances.  Nigeria Labour Congress Begins Strike In Kaduna, Shut Banks, Schools, Airport, Train Station, Others | Sahara Reporters https://t.co/Ztzq9js9vR pic.twitter.com/8LeFhrWin0  The workers also grounded all economic activities in the state. The state has also been thrown into darkness by the electricity workers union, supply of petroleum product cut by Nupeng (Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers), and aviation and railway workers also shut the Kaduna International Airport and the Kaduna-Abuja train service. El-Rufai on his verified Twitter page on Tuesday declared the labour leaders wanted for ‘economic sabotage & attacks on public infrastructure under Miscellaneous Offences Act.’ He tweeted, “KADUNA UPDATE: Ayuba Wabba & others of ‪@NLCHeadquarters‬ declared wanted for economic sabotage & attacks on public infrastructure under Miscellaneous Offences Act. Anyone that knows where he is hiding should send a message to ‪ @MOJKaduna‬. KDSG. There will be a handsome reward!”