The Nigerian Indigenous Nationalities Alliance for Self-Determination (NINAS) has urged the British High Commissioner to Nigeria to allow for self-determination of the regions as being canvassed for in some quarters. This was contained in a letter written by Tony Nnadi, Secretary-General of the Lower Niger Congress, and co-convener of NINAS (the Alliance of indigenous ethnic nationalities of the South and Middle Belt) to the British High Commissioner. File Photo: Nigeria on the map Nnadi described as insensitive, the comment by the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing that anyone involved in the truncation of preparations for 2023 elections will be denied a visa to the United Kingdom. Nnadi argued that the federal government's insistence on one Nigeria is all in a bid to conquer the rest of Nigeria for the establishment of the Fulani Caliphate. He called for the urgent break-away of the indigenous ethnic nationalities consisting of Southern Nigeria and the Middle Belt from Nigeria, warning that failure to do this will lead to enslavement and possible extermination of the people. He wrote, “It is no longer a matter for debate that the Fulani Caliphate, currently masquerading as 'the Federal Government of Nigeria' is on a ferocious conquest mission against the indigenous nationalities of Nigeria in the desperate bid to create a homeland for all the Fulani of Africa. “It is no longer a matter for debate the said conquest campaign which is being executed in some kind of joint-venture with the global Islamist terror networks ISIS and Al-Quaeda (operating locally as Boko Haram, ISWAP and Fulani herdsmen), is dressed in the garb of a Jihad in which the Fulanised Nigeria will be the new operational hub of those global terror networks. “It should now be a past debate that the two choices open to the utterly endangered indigenous nationalities of Nigeria is either to immediately dismantle the failed Lugardian Experiment of 1914 and make a bolt to safety and freedom from the Union of Death the world calls Nigeria or to preserve Nigeria for complete Fulani conquest and their own extermination. “For every day we (non-Caliphate rest of Nigeria) delay the application of the only viable remedy to the ongoing Fulani conquest onslaught, we exponentially increase the danger we are in and enhance the success potential for the Fulani Conquest mission. “That only viable remedy is to swiftly terminate the Union of Death with the Fulani by the immediate dismantling of the rogue Unitary Constitution of Nigeria (1999), by which the Fulani Caliphate 'Owns and Controls' the entirety of Nigeria. “We (the non-Caliphate rest of Nigeria) must give up the monster called 'One-Nigeria' to regain our freedom and our right to live and prosper in peace in our ancestral lands. “Every other approach preserves that Nigeria for full Fulani Conquest and leads to our damnation, enslavement and possible extermination which is already ongoing. “The starting point in this urgent task of self-redemption is for us to realise and act upon the truth that the Federation of Nigeria (ie the Nigeria we know) which was our project, collapsed and died since 1967 and that the Caliphate managed to seize the carcass which it transmogrified with the aid of the British into the current unworkable Unitary Contraption called One-Nigeria that belongs exclusively to the Fulani and in which the rest of Nigeria are mere slaves and serfs now waiting to be killed off by invading Fulani marauders from all over Africa being aided by the illicit Federal Government of Nigeria. “Happily though, the embattled indigenous nationalities of Nigeria have roundly repudiated and rejected the Caliphate-Imposed 1999 Constitution as the basis of the distressed Nigerian Union. “All that is left to be done now is the immediate wholesale decommissioning and jettisoning of that toxic 1999 Constitution in a two-stage process dictated by the inalienable self-determination rights of the trapped Constituent Components that will in the first stage feature regional stay or leave referendums. “December 16, 2020, Constitutional Force Majeure Proclamation provides a comprehensive time-bound mechanism and framework for enacting our escape through that only viable route to safety from the current total and dangerous Caliphate encirclement for extermination. “The only semblance of a lifeline that may still be available to the dying 1999 Constitution is the 2023 general elections which will invariably be anchored upon the repudiated 1999 Constitution. “Unfortunately for the Caliphate proprietors of the rickety One-Nigeria, the overwhelming majority of Nigerians (South and Middle Belt, cooperating as NINAS) who have repudiated the 1999 Constitution have also rejected further national elections under that Constitution (particularly the 2023 round of general elections), until the Union Dispute declared via December 16, 2020, Constitutional Force Majeure Proclamation is fully resolved. “It is only if the endangered rest of Nigeria is foolish enough to submit themselves to a further round of national elections in 2023, will the aforementioned semblance of a lifeline be extended to the brain-dead 1999 Constitution. That will not happen. “As to be expected, the desperate Caliphate-controlled 'Federal Government' of Nigeria is doing everything conceivable to railroad Nigeria to another round of National Elections in 2023, as its strategy to saving the dying 1999 Constitution and the Fulani-controlled Unitary Union it foists. “The Caliphate which had consistently boasted that it will keep power in the Caliphate North for all times has suddenly thrown the bait of Power Shift to the political renegades of Southern Nigeria in a bid to set the Igbo and the Yoruba on a head-on collision for who will clinch presidential power in 2023, thereby destroying the core of the NINAS Alliance. “This worn-out gimmickry of divide-and-rule is dead on arrival as the peoples of the South and Middle-Belt of Nigeria already decided not to renew the life of the Apartheid 1999 Constitution (and therefore their own enslavement) by way of another round of Elections in 2023. “It is against the backdrop of the foregoing that NINAS would view the recent reckless and insulting interjection by the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing who threatened that anyone involved in the popular push towards the truncation of preparations for 2023 Elections will be denied UK Visas. “Let It be clearly understood that at a time the indigenous peoples of Nigeria and indeed the Constituent Components of Nigeria who is trapped in the clear and present danger of existential threat that British-made Nigeria has become for them, are taking steps to extricate themselves from that danger, this threat of denial of UK visas by the British High Commissioner to Nigeria is most insensitive, most offensive and very infuriating especially considering the central role of Britain in creating and sustaining the monster the world knows as Nigeria which is now feeding on the blood of the trapped Constituent Components. “The situation is compounded by the fact that recently declassified British Colonial Records relating to Nigeria’s Amalgamation of 1914 clearly establish the role of Britain in handing the permanent reigns of power over Nigeria to the Fulani and had constantly propped up the Fulani in their trademark arrogance and brigandage since the 1960 so-called Independence of Nigeria. “The central role of Britain in the Union disruptions of 1966 as well as 1967 to 1970 genocidal war against Eastern Nigeria (Biafra) are well documented. “More importantly, considering the centrality of the voyage to another round of National Elections in 2023 to the raging Union Dispute in Nigeria, it amounts to siding up with the Fulani aggressors and compounding of serial wrongdoing for a British envoy to threaten the indigenous peoples of Nigeria who are struggling to extricate themselves from the Death-Trap that Nigeria has become for them. “NINAS is confident that the British public will frown heavily on this reckless and embarrassing conduct of the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing and insist on her immediate recall.”