The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has suspended its warning strike in Kaduna following Federal Government’s intervention. NLC National President, Ayuba Wabba announced the suspension of the strike on Wednesday, saying they decided to suspend the strike to honour the invitation of the Nigerian Government.  The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige had moved to intervene in the stand-off between Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai and the NLC, which is fighting against the mass sacking of workers by the state governor. Ngige has invited El-Rufai and Labour leaders led by the NLC president, Ayuba Wabba for a meeting on Thursday at the Conference Hall of the Minister’s Office in Abuja to resolve the crisis. See Also






LABOR/WORKERS' RIGHTS
Kaduna Crisis: Nigeria's Labour Minister, Ngige Intervenes, Invites El-Rufai, Labour Leaders For Emergency Meeting Thursday
0 Comments
2 Hours Ago





The meeting is scheduled for 11 am, according to a statement issued by Charles Akpan, Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations, Ministry of Labour and Employment. The statement said, "Sequel to the strike prompted by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) one of the federations of Trade Unions in Nigeria, and the subsequent withdrawal of work and services in almost all public sector establishments and institutions in Kaduna State, including but not limited to the essential services in electricity, water and health, which has consequently resulted and inflicted huge damage and loss to the economy and well-being and even loss of lives to the people of Kaduna State in the last three days. "I am therefore constrained in the exercise of my powers as the Minister of Labour and Employment, under the Trade Disputes Act, CAP. T8, Laws of Federation of Nigeria (LFN) 2004; to invite you and your top officials to the emergency trade dispute conciliation meeting.” The minister urged both parties to maintain status quo pending the resolution of the dispute. The labour leaders had declared a five-day strike in Kaduna to press home their demands.