The acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba has ordered the Police Mobile Force and Special Tactical Squad of the Force to shoot to kill, and ignore media shouts of rights violations. Usman Baba made the statement on Tuesday when he declared war on Biafra agitators and gunmen attacking and destroying police infrastructure in the South-East and South-South regions and ordered their extermination. Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba The government has blamed the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and its militant arm, Eastern Security Network (ESN) for the recent attacks on policemen, police facilities and others in the South-East and South-South regions. Usman directed policemen in the region not to adhere to the rules of engagement while dealing with Biafra secessionist groups, adding that his job was to protect them. He said they should take the battle to them wherever they are and kill them all. According to the police boss, the policemen should not wait for an order. “Don’t mind the media shout; do the job I command you. If anyone accuses you of human rights violation, the report will come to my table and you know what I will do. So, take the battle to them wherever they are and kill them all. Don’t wait for an order. “What other order are you waiting for when Mr. President had ordered you to shoot anybody carrying AK-47 rifle? Quote me, even a dead policeman can be tried and dismissed from the force and his family will not get his benefits. “So, don’t sit and wait for them to come; take attack to them and don’t lose your arms to criminals,” the acting IGP said. Usman Baba noted that the operation was for the stabilisation of the security order in the geopolitical zone. “Indeed, the resort to terror tactics, disregard to constitutional processes and disrespect for democratic standards to advance their interests of creating an ungovernable space in the region informed the decision of the Federal Government to outlaw IPOB,” he added. Meanwhile, a Twitter user noted on Wednesday that gunshots could be heard in Owerri, Imo State, which he said could be as a result of the order from the police IG. "They've started already. There was a police shoot-out in Owerri yesterday. My younger sister in IMSU (Imo State University) called at about 11pm, the shooting was close to her hostel....and yes, stray bullet killed a student," he alleged.