Leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu says Nigeria’s leaders should stop calling the first military coup in the country 'Igbo coup'.  According to him, the coup d’etat staged on 15th January, 1966 should be tagged ‘South-South’ coup. 

IPOB Leader, Nnamdi Kanu



The IPOB leader said this on his verified Twitter handle on Wednesday while reacting to the statement by the Presidential aide, Lauretta Onochie, that Rivers State will not be part of the Biafra agitation. Onochie, President Muhammadu Buhari’s Personal Assistant on Social Media, from Delta State, has backed Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, on his position against the disintegration Nigeria. Governor Wike, during a meeting with traditional rulers, political and opinion leaders of Ekpeye on Tuesday, said his administration would not be dragged into any separation agenda. He warned those agitating to stay clear of his state, adding that he would leave no stone unturned in protecting Rivers State. “We will do everything we can to protect the interest of our State. We are friendly people in this state and allow anyone to come here and do business. But nobody should go beyond doing business to hoist unnecessary flags here,” Wike warned. Wike‘s statement was supported by Onochie who responded on her Twitter page: “Correct! Not an inch of the South-South will be annexed. We are Nigerians. Nothing more.” Reacting, the pro-Biafra group leader reminded Wike and Onochie that the last defunct Biafra President, Philip Effiong was from Ibiono-Ibom in Akwa Ibom State.  “Then educate your #Fulani Janjaweed masters to refer to the first coup in 1966 as South-South coup and not Igbo coup. “Your fellow #Fulani lapdog Wike should tell us which ethnic nationality General Philip Effiong, the last Biafra head of state, comes from. Ignorance is a disease,” Kanu tweeted. Then educate your #Fulani Janjaweed masters to refer to the first coup in 1966 as South-South coup & not Igbo coup. Your fellow #Fulani lapdog Wike should tell us which ethnic nationality General Philip Effiong, the last Biafra head of state, comes from. Ignorance is a disease. pic.twitter.com/xhfgShutbV 