The Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has said the ruling All Progressives Congress has performed creditably well in six years of ruling, and better that the 16-year performance by the Peoples Democratic Party, despite current widespread insecurity across the country. The governor also threw his weight behind Nigerian youths, saying they should occupy the seats of governance in the country and address its numerous challenges. Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello. Bello said the current leaders in all facets have failed the younger generations, and as such the onus lies on youths to ensure that Nigeria gets better. The governor said this during Sunrise Daily programme of the Channels TV monitored by SaharaReporters on Tuesday. He went further to call on the President Muhammadu Buhari to assign leadership roles to youths as he did with the appointment of 41-year-old Abdulrasheed Bawa as the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. “I want to believe that Mr President is listening. We all know that Mr President loves Nigeria and loves Nigerian youths. Our leaders have misled before today. Mr President, I’ve decided that youths come on board and (hence signing not your bill). And even ensuring that younger generations are given positions of authorities as it is with EFCC boss right now. “It is time that we allowed the younger generations to take charge and fix this country. If our leaders, elders and seniors fail us, we the younger generations should not fail ourselves. Let our attention not be diverted on issues of insecurity and other mundane issues. We should call ourselves together as Nigerians energetic, forcefully and let’s fix this country as opportunity is presenting itself. It is just a matter of days, weeks and months away. I believe we should be able to get this country fixed,” Bello said. Speaking on the scoresheet of the All Progressives Congress vis-à-vis the Peoples Democratic Party in terms of security and other areas of national issues, Bello insisted that the ruling APC has outwitted the main opposition party. He, however, added that national headache should not be treated with the blame game, rather seen as a collective burden of all regardless of partisan politics.  “Now, you are talking about my party for being in charge for six years. Yes, APC has been in charge of Nigeria or the government. We are have recorded huge successes in various other areas even including this insecurity. Daily bombings are no longer happening. APC inherited a challenge and we are trying our best to ensure that the challenges are reduced to the barest minimum.  “So, we shouldn’t just limit it to APC. That’s why I continue to say look, the challenges that have faced this country today. We should take it off partisan politics or political parties. And let us put our hands on deck to solve these problems. The APC successes in 6 years outnumber or outweigh that of PDP for 16 years that they ruled.  “Even statistics are there. If the honourable minister of information is not saying it, I want to believe very soon we will articulate all of these things and remind Nigerians of where APC inherited Nigeria and where we are today and we should ascribe it to the issue of the political party. Of course, within our party, there are those who are not doing things the way they should be, so it is in all other political parties, even when PDP was in power. But, largely APC has performed beyond what PDP achieved in their 16 years of governance in Nigeria,” the governor said.