Ahmed Isah of Abuja-based Brekete Family station has bungled the case of some kids arrested 20 years ago whose whereabouts have been unknown since then. There is a report by BBC Africa Eye in which Isah had promised heaven and earth, in order to get justice victims of an alleged human rights violation, only for him to later back out.  This has all the signs of someone pulling out of a course following inducement or intimidation. In the report, Isha was investigating a case involving eight children who were arrested by local vigilantes 20 years ago on the orders of Senator Alphonsus Obi Igbeke Urbanese, who was then a wealthy businessman. But 20 years after, the children, whose crime was using firecrackers, have yet to be seen by their parents. The youngest of them was just 10 years old. A cleric, Eberechukwu Attah, was seen in the video expressing the belief that the matter could gain the publicity needed with the help of Isah. How Ahmed Isah Bungled Case of Abducted Kids#ordinarypresident #AhmedIsahWATCH FULL VIDEO: https://t.co/pp7zOm13uJ pic.twitter.com/4LnCWqwKd6  Isa replied, “We will follow up this matter to its logical conclusion by the grace of God.” Ahmad later called Urbanese, who said he would prove his innocence within three weeks. He was heard saying, “Let me tell you something, they are liars.” Isah further gave the parents of the affected children hope, saying, “We are going to Anambra State to conclude on this matter. Big men cannot just try anything and get away with it.” His statement was followed by an enthusiastic applause from parents who believed justice was getting closer to them and would be theirs eventually. However, after repeated promises of actions, Isah later said he was not going to travel nor investigate the case further. SaharaReporters learnt that Isah is in the habit of blackmailing government officials with cases of human rights abuses brought to his office, which could be the reason why the case of the missing children was bungled. According to the source, Isah, also known as 'Ordinary President' feeds off the human rights cases brought before him, especially if the perpetrator is a wealthy government office holder. It was also learnt that Isah asked the Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof Ishaq Oloyede to be paying him N4 million monthly but he was rebuffed by JAMB boss. It was revealed that Isah claimed he had a similar arrangement with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and has been getting money . “The man is known to have been blackmailing government officials for money. He asked the Registrar of JAMB to be paying him N4 million monthly, but he was rebuffed. He told the JAMB Registrar, Professor Ishaq Oloyede that he has such an arrangement with INEC, but the man told him that JAMB is not INEC. “Meanwhile, the radio station is funded by MacArthur Foundation and Open Society Initiative for West Africa (OSIWA).” Isah, however, is not new to controversy. In a recent BBC Africa Eye documentary, published in May 2021, the activist can be seen slapping a lady who was accused of setting her brother’s daughter on fire over an allegation that she is a witch. The action elicited mixed reactions from the public, with some people criticising him.