The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has described his counterpart in Niger State, Babangida Aliyu as a liability to their political party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Wike also described Aliyu as a mole who contributes nothing to the progress of the PDP. Rivers Governor Wike The governor said this while responding to a comment allegedly made by Aliyu that Wike was a dictator and that the problem of the party's national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus was connected to his coming from Rivers State. But Wike, who did not mince words, said, “Yes, I read it in various newspapers. But what makes a man is when he is bold to say I am referring to Mr.... not to hide on the background that that you cannot say it is you I was talking about. So, that shows you the character that Aliyu Babangia is. “With utmost respect, I believe that this period is very tight for us. Problems of insecurity, how we are going to make sure Nigeria moves forward. But one has to react based on the kind of insinuations he (Aliyu) may have made. “One, there is no political dictator in Rivers State as far as PDP is concerned. That is why today, if there is one state that PDP is sure of winning any day, any time in this country if the election is called tomorrow, I am sure that it is Rivers State. “That is not the case with Niger State. Babangida Aliyu is a political liability in PDP. He is not an asset to PDP. Now, this is a man who came out to the public to say that he sabotaged, he worked against the PDP in winning the Presidential election in 2015. I can quote him well, he said we, Northern Governors worked against President Goodluck Jonathan." But also according to Wike, Aliyu's claims were denied by some northern governors including a former governor of Plateau State, Jonah Jang and a former governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido. Wike said, “Of course you saw the reply of the former President to him. He (Aliyu) is a rabble rouser and perpetual blackmailer. He is what you call a chronic liar, a serial betrayer. The funny part of life is that the same Babangida Aliyu in 2017 was one of those who opposed Secondus to be chairman of the party." “People like Aliyu are just moles. He is one of the moles we have in PDP. These are people who get information and in the night they go back to the ruling party to give them information. “What can he contribute to the PDP? So, he has no job as it is today,” Wike said. Noting that Aliyu called him a dictator, the Rivers State governor continued, “He called me a dictator, I challenge him to go and hold a congress in your state. Can he make PDP win in Niger State? As I speak to you, no state congress has been held in Niger State because of his dictatorial tendencies. He does not want the people that the masses want." Denying that there was a rift between him and the PDP national chairman, Secondus, Wike said, "If there was any problem with Uche Secondus, he would have said so. Nobody should take Babangida Aliyu seriously. He is a political liability to our party. This is a man who publicly said he and other northern governors worked against former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015."