The National Association of Seadogs (Pyrates Confraternity) has declared the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN) as unfit to remain in office after drawing false equivalence between open grazing of cattle in southern Nigeria and selling of spare parts in northern Nigeria. The NAS Capoon, Mr Abiola Owoaje in a statement titled “Malami unfit to remain AGF,” described his comparison as “irresponsible and shameful”.  He said it is disheartening that Mr. Malami, the Chief Law Officer, could make utterances capable of inciting Nigerians against one another, whilst making an incompetent argument on a point of law. While arguing that selling of spare parts does not involve bloodletting like open grazing of cattle which has been witnessed in different parts of the country, Owoaje said thousands of Nigerians have been killed and displaced from their homes and land as a result of open grazing. The statement said, “Section 41 of the Nigerian constitution enshrines the freedom of movement of humans but this cannot be translated into the unrestrained right to roam and trespass by animals and their herders, or their criminal proxies. "It is noteworthy to point out that as far back as April 2018, a three-man sub-committee on farmers/herders clashes, of the National Economic Council (NEC) headed by Governor Dave Umahi, had recommended the ban on open grazing." "The NEC had accepted the recommendation but is yet to be enforced. As the Chief Law Officer of the country with such a sectarian mindset, Mr. Malami, with his comments, has exposed himself as one of those frustrating the resolution of the farmers/herders crisis. He appears to be an agent of destabilisation, who has no place in the Federal Executive Council. "His remarks are a disservice to his position as the Attorney-General, and the profession in which he has attained some prominence, and regrettably, an indication that he is no longer fit for the position he presently occupies. "At a time the unity of this country has been badly shaken; and a period when impunity stalks the land, keeping Mr. Malami as the Attorney-General is a mockery of justice and fairness, and an assault on national cohesion. He should honourably resign his position, or be fired to save the Buhari government from further embarrassment.” 