Parents and candidates of the 2021 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) have asked the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, to come up with a plan B to ease the registration process. One of the parents, who spoke with SaharaReporters, Vershima Zaki, said the process of generating an E-profile code has been delaying a lot of candidates from continuing with the registration.  According to him, his son who is a candidate for this year's UTME has been trying to generate a code after texting the National Identity Number to the service provider over five days earlier to no avail. He stated that without the E-code, the registration cannot even commence. The aggrieved father expressed worry over the plight of candidates as the board has yet to come up with an explanation or an alternative means of registration. He said, “My son has been trying to register his e-profile for the past five days now. We keep sending the NIN in text messages, wasting N60 per text message and they keep telling us they will get back to us. The worst part of it is they are not responding to anyone's complaint. “They just abandoned us with no explanation. My son went to the centre to register, they said he must come and register with his e-profile code and JAMB is not helping matters; no news or anything and I go to their website every day to try to see if there will be news or any form of information on alternative means of registration but there is nothing like that." “No one from JAMB has cared to come out and explain that maybe they have something they are coming up with so that if we cannot get to register through this process, then we can register through another. Go to their Facebook page, many complaints are lined up and no response from the board," another parent said. “The code is 55019, you text your NIN to them and they are supposed to send back a code so you can continue with the registration but all these while, no message is coming forth. Without the E-profile code, no way to continue with the registration. I believe 50% of prospective candidates are affected and no one is saying anything, won't they sit for JAMB? “If there is any plan B, they should let us know. They should also tell us when the registration will close. Or is this how they will keep deducting N60 per text message? I didn't sleep throughout last night, someone told me to try at night, I did till daybreak, up till now, I didn't get anything. Some people even complained that they have sent N16, 000 just in a bid to get the E-profile code."