Some staff members of the Federal Fire Service (FFS) have asked President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the Controller-General (CG) of the agency, Alhaji Liman Ibrahim. They also asked the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate and arrest Liman and other top board members of the agency. Alhaji Liman Ibrahim, Nigeria’s Controller-General (CG) of the Federal Fire Service Speaking to SaharaReporters, one of the officers alleged that the CG sent his mistress and that of other top operatives to Belarus for training. He said, “The EFCC should investigate and arrest Ibrahim Liman. Anybody’s house, establishment or investment can go up in flames in seconds. This is because the Federal Fire Leadersip is more interested in bribing the Minister, Rauf Aregbesola, Head of Service, Dr Folashade, Accountant General, Ahmed Idris, Board of Interior, Senate and Reps Interior Committees Chairmen and Members, what do you expect? No initiative so the country is in flames. “And now, he is sending over 40 of their girlfriends and loyal selected persons for training in Belarus with taxpayers' money collected by FIRS. This is illegal, they claimed they were cutting cost, yet N900,000 was paid to each person as estacode. “Multiply that by 40, that’s N36 million approved by this illegal CGF, illegal ACG Admin wearing uniform, not even a federal government staff. “Ask them, is President Buhari aware of this training? What about ICPC (Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission), Head of Service, DSS, Civil Service Commission, Minister Aregbesola, Board of Interior?” Another staff member accused Liman of running the agency like his private business. “All those he planned to promote from ACGFs to DCGFs and CFS to ACGFs certificates were never verified and certified. Their transfer letters from State Fire to Federal Fire Service were with impunity. “This man, Liman has been running the place like his private cult. The DSS (Department of State Services) is supposed to arrest all those with fake papers of recruitment to Federal Civil Service In Fire Service. “This is why when your house is on fire or a school, they have no administrative capacity to response procedures. How can a federal uniform staff member be paid over the counter, not IPPIS, not TSA. “They are not staff of the service. So girlfriends and loyal boys of the CG Liman from Northern extraction and Southeastern girls whom they always travel with for amorous relationships are being sponsored for a shambolic training in Belarus with government purse with no verified entry certificates or appointment letters,” he told SaharaReporters.