The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has said it will not force corps members to take the COVID-19 vaccine.  The scheme, however, advised that the vaccine should be taken for personal protection against contracting the deadly coronavirus. File photo
File photo The NYSC Director-General, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, stated this on Friday during a nationwide virtual address to the 2021 Batch 'A' Stream Two Prospective Corps Members ahead of their official induction in the 37 NYSC orientation camps across the country.  According to a statement obtained by SaharaReporters, he advised them to make themselves available to the officials from the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency whenever they visit their camps to administer the vaccine on camp participants.  He said, “Adhere strictly to all COVID-19 safety protocols, don't expose yourselves to danger and be vaccinated. Corps members must abide by the Oath of Allegiance of the Scheme, the NYSC byelaws and NYSC Act in order to maintain good conduct throughout the service year.  “NYSC doesn't habour criminals, shun cultism, cybercrime and other social vices. You must be disciplined, committed, patriotic and maintain good record throughout your service year.  “ldentify the felt needs of your host communities and initiate laudable projects. Take the full advantage of the service year and be exemplary in your conduct for others to follow. Obey strictly all the rules in your place of Primary Assignments and host communities and also serve as good ambassadors of the NYSC Scheme, your school and institutions.  “Please take note of the security tips and don't put yourself in harm's way. You must be security conscious and identity with the security agencies wherever you are posted to. Avoid parties and night travelling because the Federal Government and NYSC care for your security.  “If you want to travel, obtain written permission from NYSC because your employer doesn't have the power to grant you permission and also don't travel at night.  “If you are going on a long journey cut the journey to pass the night once it's six o clock. Don't embark on any unauthorised journey and don't endanger your safety.”