Jennifer Olufade, the widow of the late Flight Lieutenant Alfred Olufade, has revealed that her husband dreamt of last Friday’s plane crash a day before the incident.  The newly wedded Olufade was among the 11 persons that died in the ill-fated Nigerian Air Force Beechcraft aircraft, which was conveying the late Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru, some top military officers, and their aides to Kaduna before the sad event.  In her tribute to the deceased on her Instagram page, the widow who had barely enjoyed her marriage of three months, said when he informed her he was going to Kaduna, she called repeatedly to dissuade him but he didn’t take his call. See Also






Sahara Reporters
REVEALED: Identities Of Officers, 4 Crew Members Killed Along With Chief Of Army Staff In Plane Crash
0 Comments
3 Days Ago Jeniffer posted a video of their wedding alongside the tribute which read, “It's only you that can comfort me and your mum and Dad and everyone. It's only you. My Ayodeji my double joy I don't think my joy can ever be complete without you, my Sparkle that lights up my life.  “My hype active/super jovial husband always active, I saw them lay you to rest all I could say was GOD. My God never sleeps nor slumbers but at this point, I don't know what to think again o my God. I wish you were here now. Oh oh oh oh my heart sings, oh oh oh oh my heart sings oh oh oh... I'm pained my whole wide world is crumbled. Where do I pick my pieces from God? I don't even know what to think. I can't sleep, I can't eat, I can't think straight, only you God.  “Letter to my husband, my Sparkle+ Late Flt. Lt. AAO. You went too soon, you had bigger dreams and all the dreams scattered ah ah ah my inseparable, they’ve finally separated us.  “Oh Sparkle, you left me so early, oh my best friend where do I start from? I am broken and pieced, my heartaches. This wasn’t what you promised me, you said you will always be there for me. Where are you now? Oh, 20th of May you took away my rare gem. We were inseparable; oh God, I am scattered and incomplete.  “The same 20th of May, about 4 am, you woke me up with fear and said baby, baby, I had a bad dream. I dreamt that I crashed on our way to Kaduna; you said it looked – real very real.  “I prayed for you seriously that morning and asked you not to worry. I asked you about your mission order and who you were flying with. You told me Flt. Lt. Asaniyi.  “I said don’t worry; you will go and come back. Oh, my World, you did; you went to Enugu, Owerri, and back to Abuja. We did a video call, we spoke at length and you were just smiling and laughing. Little did I know that was your last smile and laugh I would see.  “And the next message I received was you were going to Kaduna; my heart shattered, I smelt danger. I quickly messaged you, saying wow seriously. I started calling you, you didn’t pick (up). I called and called, my Sparkle didn’t pick (up), why didn’t you pick up, why?  “I wanted to beg you not to go. My heart panicked. You told me; you were coming home to eat pounded yam and egusi. I waited for you. How do I imagine myself eating without you? Is that even possible?  “These three months have been heaven to me. We eat together on the same plate, we prayed together, we laughed together, and cried together.  “I never imagined losing you or typing R.I.P. This wasn’t the plan you had for me. We promised to tour the world together; you said you will always be by my side.  “It's still like a dream that I can't see you. I know you are coming back to me. All I see is condolences message, how to I stand them. Reading them pierces my heart the more. Our Zain, Zion and Zoe didn't come ah AAO you left me too soon my all in all, Aboy its too much for me to take, our bond was super strong. I feel like a failure I couldn't stop you I could stop Asaniyi oh my God, oh my God you saw this. Emmanuel Emmanuel Emmanuel Emmanuel Emmanuel Emmanuel Emmanuel Emmanuel Emmanuel Emmanuel your name be praised.”