The Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami has said the Federal Government of Nigeria is set to prosecute some high-profile Nigerians and businessmen for financing terrorism. Malami, who was speaking with State House correspondents at the Presidential Villa in Abuja on Friday, however, did not disclose the identities of the suspects or the number of people affected. Abubakar Malami The minister said the profiling of the suspects started with the recent convictions of some Nigerians on terrorism financing in the United Arab Emirates. He said an investigation had revealed that the suspects being profiled were culpable and there was the need for them to be prosecuted. He said, “Sometime back, there were certain convictions of Nigerians allegedly involved in terrorism financing in the United Arab Emirates. “That gave rise to a wider and far-reaching investigation in Nigeria and I am happy to report that arising from the wider coverage investigation that has been conducted in Nigeria, a number of people, both institutional and otherwise, were found to be culpable. “I mean reasonable grounds for suspicion of terrorism financing have been established, or perhaps have been proven to be in existence in respect of the transactions of certain high-profile individuals and businessmen across the country. “I am happy to report that the investigation has been ongoing for long and it has reached an advanced stage. “Arising from the investigation, there exists, certainly, reasonable grounds for suspicion that a lot of Nigerians, high-profile, institutional, and otherwise, are involved in terrorism financing and they are being profiled for prosecution. “In essence, it is indeed true that the government is prosecuting and it is indeed initiating processes of prosecuting those high-profile individuals that are found to be financing terrorism. It is indeed true.” On the number of the suspects to be prosecuted, the minister said since an investigation was still ongoing, he would not be able to disclose that but stated that many people were involved. He said, “As to the number, an investigation is ongoing and it has to be conclusive before one can arrive at a certain number, but one thing I can tell you is it is a large number and they are being profiled for prosecution. “It is indeed a large number and I am not in a position to give you the precise number as of now because the profiling and investigation are ongoing.” Malami said the Federal Government would not spare anybody found to be culpable. “The message is clear: nobody is going to be spared, no stone will be left unturned. We shall certainly and aggressively pursue those people that are involved in terrorist financing as far as the Nigerian state is concerned,” he declared.