The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has officially taken the matter of two anti-President Muhammadu Buhari protesters detained arbitrarily in Kogi State before the United Nations. The group said it had sent “an urgent complaint to the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention over the arbitrary detention and ill-treatment of activists –Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka –simply for peacefully exercising their right to protest in Kogi state.” Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello. The two protesters were flogged and humiliated by hoodlums loyal to the Kogi State government under Yahaya Bello before they were handed over to the police, where they were further subjected to all sorts of abuse. In the complaint document dated 25 May, 2021 and signed by SERAP Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare, the organisation said: “The detention of Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka constitutes an arbitrary deprivation of their liberty because it does not have any legal justification. The detention also does not meet minimum international standards of due process.” The group also described the "arrest and continued detention of Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka as an egregious violation of their human rights".



See Also






ACTIVISM
Buhari-Must-Go Protesters Critically Sick After 23 Days In Kogi Government’s Detention
0 Comments
4 Weeks Ago "The Nigerian and Kogi state authorities have violated the following rights under the Nigerian Constitution, 1999 (as amended) and international law in continuing to detain Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka: the right to be free from arbitrary detention; the right freedom from torture and ill-treatment, and the right to due process of law,” it added. SERAP lamented that the duo's lawyer has been prevented from having access to his clients. They have also spent over 40 days in detention with being granted bail, which is illegal. SERAP said, "According to their lawyer, Benjami Omeiza, he has no access to Emmanuel Larry and Victor Anen Udoka and that while he was negotiating for their release, Kogi State quickly arranged for a Magistrate to order their detention in prison, ex-parte (without notice). They have been in prison for over forty days afterwards. They have not been formally charged nor arraigned before any competent court of jurisdiction; neither have they been released.”SERAP is calling on the Working Group to “initiate a procedure involving the investigation of the cases of Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka, and urgently send an allegation letter to the Nigerian and Kogi state authorities inquiring about the case generally, and specifically about the legal basis for their arrest, detention, and ill-treatment, each of which is in violation of international law.” SERAP is also urging the Working Group to “issue an opinion declaring that Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka’s deprivation of liberty and detention is arbitrary and in violation of Nigeria’s Constitution and obligations under international law. We also urge the Working Group to call for the immediate release of Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka.” “We urge the Working Group to request the Nigerian and Kogi state authorities to investigate and hold accountable all persons responsible for the unlawful arrest, continued detention, and ill-treatment of Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka in Kogi State,” it continued.  SERAP is also calling on the Working Group “to request the Nigerian and Kogi state authorities to award Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka adequate compensation for the violations they have endured as a result of their unlawful arrest, arbitrary detention, and ill-treatment.” The complaint addressed to Ms. Elina Steinerte Chairman/Rapporteur of the Working Group, read in part: “As set forth in this Individual Complaint, the Nigerian and Kogi State authorities are arbitrarily depriving Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka of their liberty and continues to arbitrarily detain them. Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka are citizens of Nigeria and have been detained since 5th April, 2021. They continue to be detained without access to the outside world.



See Also






Human Rights
Power-Drunk Kogi Deputy Governor Behind Continued Detention Of Critically Ill Buhari-Must-Go Protesters
0 Comments
3 Weeks Ago





 “Pursuant to the mandate of the Working Group, the 'Manual of Operations of the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council' and the publication 'Working with the UN Human Rights Programme, a Handbook for Civil Society', SERAP, a non-governmental human rights organisation, can provide information on a specific human rights case or situation in a particular country, or on a country’s laws and practices with human rights implications. “SERAP therefore argues that the case adequately satisfies the requirements by which to submit an individual complaint to the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention. “SERAP respectfully requests the Working Group to initiate the procedure involving the investigation of individual cases toward reaching an opinion declaring Larry Emmanuel and Victor Anene Udoka’s detention to be arbitrary and in violation of international law. To this end, SERAP will pursue the regular communications procedure before the Working Group in order to have the ability to provide comments on any response by the Nigerian and Kogi State authorities. “The government of President Muhammadu Buhari is responsible under the Nigerian Constitution of 1999 (as amended) and international law to protect the safety and rights of protesters and create an environment conducive to a diverse and pluralistic expression of ideas and peaceful dissent from government policy. “The wave of protests against repression by both the Federal and Kogi state authorities illustrate a broken social contract between the authorities and Nigerians. The authorities have been failing to meet the demands of Nigerians to respect human rights, end restrictions on civic space, obey court orders and ensure the rule of law. “The failure to hold to account those responsible has continued to increase the vulnerability of protesters and activists in the country. “SERAP is seriously concerned that the Nigerian and Kogi state authorities have so far failed and/or neglected to address or redress the attacks on the peaceful protesters, despite growing calls on the authorities to investigate the attacks and bring perpetrators to justice. “We urge you to put pressure on the Nigerian authorities to take all feasible measures to protect peaceful protesters demanding the release of all prisoners of conscience, and full respect for the rule of law. “We urge you to put pressure on the Nigerian and Kogi state authorities to make clear that they will not tolerate violent attacks on protesters. The authorities have a responsibility both to respect the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and to protect protesters from violent attack.”