Nigerian rapper, Mr. Folarin Falana, popularly known as Falz says Nigeria does not deserve to be called a Third World or a developing countries. According to him, the country is in a backward state which should make it be among the tenth world nations of the world, should there be such a category.  Falz said it is ridiculous and shameful that Nigeria is still debating about reforming or replacing the 1999 Constitution of the country in the 21st century when other nations of the world are talking about viable economic, political and technological issues that will fortify their economies and prosper their people. The music artiste lamented that the country is bewildered with political leaders and other influential figures that do not follow the provisions of the law, hence are above the law and become oppressors of the common man. Falz said this at the virtual conference of #TheFixPolitics/Dialogue tagged: ‘1999 Constitution: To change or amend’ held on Monday. “I feel like we are very backward as a country. Nigeria is one of the third world countries, but I tell you we should be in the fifth or tenth world countries, because of our culture of impunity,” Falz said. He stated that the current constitution is faulty, but yet the good parts that address critical issues are not adhered to by the leaders, because it does not favour them. He gave an instance of the courts that have been shut across the country for the past seven weeks, as a result of the state governors' refusal to heed the ruling granting financial autonomy to the state judicial arms in their respective states. “It is ridiculous we are still here. The culture of impunity and the fact that there are no consequences for our actions are demeaning. “For example, during the #EndSARS protest, a policeman could say he would shoot a young protester and nothing would happen. That’s the culture of impunity! It is because there are no consequences for our actions. Nobody is following the provisions of the constitution,” Falz said.