The family of a businessman identified as Enobong Jimmy, who was allegedly murdered last Sunday by an army officer he offered a ride in his car to Ikot Abasi local government area of Akwa Ibom State is demanding justice. The victim’s family particularly called on the Federal government and the Nigerian Army to ensure that the murderer was brought to justice. Stephen, the alleged murderer and, late Enobong Christopher Jimmy. The victim’s brother, Idorenyin Ikpongeyen disclosed on Wednesday that the deceased was on his way to visit his family in the Mkpat Enin Local Government Area of the state but was killed by a security officer who ought to protect him. See Also






CRIME
Nigerian Soldier Allegedly Kills Car Owner ‘Who Gave Him A Lift’
0 Comments
13 Hours Ago Ikpongeyen who also disclosed that his late brother was an employee of ECO Clearing & Forwarding Company, Port Harcourt, asked if it is now a crime for people to offer assistance to others, for fear of being killed. He lamented: "It is very painful that we had to lose our brother to the hands of ungodly Nigerian army personnel, all because he wanted to steal or reap from where he did not sow. He was married with two daughters, an 8-year-old and a one-year-old. “I appeal to the Federal government, the Nigerian Army, and the general public to help fight this fight. Also, I beg the Nigerian government to bring the murderer of my brother to justice." It was gathered on Wednesday that the deceased who hails from Ikot Obio Akai, Mkpat Enin LGA was shot dead inside his vehicle on his way to Mkpat Enin by the Army officer he offered a ride from Eleme junction, Port Harcourt to Ikot Abasi in Akwa Ibom state. A reliable family source also revealed to newsmen on Wednesday in Uyo that the Army officer did not only shoot his victim with a rifle but inflicted several dagger wounds on his chest, Vanguard reports. He said, “With a car tracking device in the car, he was tracked, and picked up at one hotel in Ukanafun Local Government Area.” It could be recalled that the murder suspect was tracked and arrested on Monday, following a complaint by the deceased relatives to the police in Ikot Abasi LGA and a tracking device in the vehicle. As of the time of filing this report, the Nigeria Army has not issued an official statement over the murder case allegedly committed by its personnel.