The Indigenous People of Biafra has directed its members across the globe to observe sit-at-home on the last day of May in honour of fallen heroes.  Members of the IPOB, thus, will observe the Biafra Remembrance Day on May 31 as against what was originally planned to be May 30.  The new development was contained in a statement issued by the Media and Publicity Secretary of the group, Emma Powerful on Tuesday.  “We, the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great and indomitable leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, wish to announce that this year's Biafra Remembrance Day sit-at-home will now hold on Monday, May 31, and not Sunday, May 30 as earlier directed. The modification is following genuine observations about our earlier directive as many of our people observe Sundays as a day of worship.  “There will be a partial observation of the Biafra Day on May 30th. But there will be a total lockdown and sit-at-home on Monday 31st of May.  “We, therefore, expect Biafrans all over the world to stay indoors on May 31 for the respect and honour of our fallen heroes and heroines who paid the supreme price for us to live. It is our right to remember them for defending the genocidal attacks given to our people between 1967 and 1970 by Fulani Jihadists supported by the British government.  “Consequently, all commercial activities must be shut down on 31st of May throughout the land of Biafra. There should be no vehicular movement on that day on Biafra roads. Transport companies must withdraw from the road on that day. National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW); National Associations of Road Transport Owners (NURTO); and others are expected to fully comply with this directive,” the statement partly read.  The pro-Biafra group continued reminded its members in Nigeria that all socio-economic and political activities should be ignored while those residing overseas should hold peaceful rallies on that day to honour its slain warriors.  “In the same vein, artisans and traders must close their shops on that day. Airports, seaports, banks and financial institutions should all shut down in honour of our fallen heroes and heroines.  “Okada and tricycle (riders) organisations are also advised to withdraw from roads on that day. There shall be no social gatherings or events including burials, weddings on that day from 6 am to 6 pm.  “Parents are advised not to send their children to school on that day as no one is expected to be seen outside. Full compliance is expected from all.  “Biafrans in Diaspora are to hold peaceful rallies in their countries of abode,” the IPOB said.