Nigerian TV evangelist, TB Joshua, says Nigeria will remain one despite instability in different parts of the country. Joshua, a preacher whose prophecies have drawn criticism in recent times, spoke in his church on Sunday. He played a video of a 2014 prophecy he made about Nigeria.  The preacher spoke on Nigeria's current upheaval caused by the COVID-19 and unrest in different parts of the country and linked it to the 2014 prophecy. "Beyond this crisis, Nigeria is beautiful," he says. "Your prayer now is that you should witness it so that this crisis will not take you away," the cleric soberly declared during a service at The Synagogue, Church Of All Nations (SCOAN). "It is decreed that this nation will be reckoned with as a powerful nation." Joshua says politicians will pay for their contributions to the crisis. He said, "Huge trouble is coming, and no human being will withstand it unless you don't have a hand in that trouble. There is a cloud that covers Nigeria… the cloud of crisis, murder, killings, destruction covers Nigeria. The cloud will go; Nigeria will remain. Power without peace is powerless…The manner you have that power will determine whether there will be peace in it. "The power is in the heart, not in the gun, not in the White House or Aso Rock. If you live in the White House without power in the heart, it is like you live in the bush. I want to assure you: Nigeria – nothing will happen to Nigeria. Nigeria will remain one!" Reacting to insecurity fuelled by banditry and terrorism, Joshua said, "They have infiltrated everywhere. There is no section or department in this country that these people are not there. It has become a professional job. No one is secured by power and might and gun that they cannot get unless those whom God protects – because they have infiltrated everywhere. They are no more inside the bush; they are everywhere." Reacting to the political crisis in the country, Joshua said, "There will be an answer if they can pay the price; by putting their political agenda behind and discuss the unity of this nation. "Quote me once again – security, police, guns, soldiers cannot protect anyone again because everywhere is infiltrated. Joshua's Youtube account was suspended recently. After reviewing at least seven videos, a rights body filed a complaint showing the preacher conducting prayers to "cure" gay people. The prophecies have attracted attention on social media, with TB Joshua listed among the recent trends on Twitter. Many Pro-Biafra agitators do not like the prophecies. Many Nigerians took turns to react. A Twitter user, identified as MBrown, wrote, "TB Joshua prophesied that Nigeria would not break up. This is Coming from the same prophet who took cameras and media crew last year to his fasting wilderness. Said Coronavirus could end before May 2020, which later prove to be a fake decree. Make everybody dey their dey." Joshua was slammed in several quarters after his prophecy that the coronavirus pandemic would end on March 27, 2020, was not fulfilled. Months after, the killer virus has continued to affect several countries with a second wave of the novel disease currently making the headlines.