Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu says the circumstances surrounding his nuclear family cannot allow him support the disintegration of Nigeria. He, therefore, said the unity of the country is his utmost concern, adding that the National Assembly members should listen to the cries of the people and allow a national dialogue.  Akeredolu said this on Tuesday evening when the Senate Committee on the Review of 1999 Constitution paid him a courtesy visit in Akure. The Committee was led by the Deputy Senate majority leader and Senator representing Ondo North Senatorial district, Prof. Ajayi Borrofice, and others in his entourage included Senator Biodun Olujimi; Senator Nicholas Tofowomo; Senator Olubunmi Adetumbi and Senator Opeyemi Bamidele. The Senators were in Ondo State to hold a public hearing on the review of the 1999 constitution (As Amended). The event is billed to hold at the International Centre for Culture and Event (DOME), on Wednesday at Akure, the Ondo State capital. Akeredolu said people are losing confidence because a number of issues have been allowed to linger for too long. He therefore urged the Senators to listen to public complaints as the public hearing begins today. The Ondo Governor said the people are desirous of national dialogue to chart a new course for the country, stressing that it is important for the continued existence of Nigeria. While reiterating his unwavering commitment to the unity of the nation, Akeredolu noted that issues of insecurity and true federalism have affected many things in the county, including the trust of the people. "I kept making a case anytime I have the opportunity. My circumstance cannot make me believe in secession. My wife is from the South-East. My sons married from other regions outside South-West. “But strong points have been made. Everybody wants to see fairness, federalism. Those are the areas. Is this how to run a federal government? Is it an inclusive one? How do we have fair representation? People are worried. “This constitution review, your efforts, I pray it should be accepted. Our people believe that there must be dialogue. People are saying we want national dialogue. How we convoke it, I don’t know. I believe those are issues we must look at," Akeredolu said. The governor who said the people are already frustrated, declared that the incessant crises between the farmers and herders cannot be overlooked in the course of the public hearing. “It is not easy to wish herders/farmers clash away. Our people are on the edge. What are we saying about police? Are we stressing multi-level policing? Are we taking about state police? I believe opportunities are there for us in this country," he added. 