Over 7, 800 Nigerians have signed a petition on change.org to ensure that popular Nollywood actor, Olarewaju Omiyinka, aka Baba Ijesha, who allegedly molested a minor is not released from police custody. Baba Ijesha as been under fire since he was reported by a comedienne, Damilola Adekoya, popularly known as Princess, that the actor had been defiling her ward since she was seven years old.  When the actor was apprehended last Tuesday, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said there was substantial evidence against the actor as he was caught in the act on Closed Circuit Television. Many Nigerians had requested for the footage to substantiate the claim of the comedienne. However, there are unfounded allegations that some people with ‘superior powers' are set to influence the release of the actor. A petition, which is drafted by Aunt Landa's Bethel Foundation on Thursday, has a target of 10, 000 signatories against the release of the Yoruba actor, Baba Ijesha. It was titled, “Olanrewaju James Omiyinka must not be released in Nigeria for defiling a 7-year-old girl.” The petition was started to the House of Commons, House of Parliament, Human Rights Campaign, United States Department of Health and Human Services and one other. A part of the petition read, “We seek full justice for the young child, it is embarrassing to know Nigeria Police Force is trying to grant Olanrewaju James Omiyinka bail today at Panti Police Station, Lagos state, Nigeria. “I want to remind the Nigeria Police Force that Section 218 of the Criminal Code Act provides that any person who has unlawful carnal knowledge of a girl under the age of thirteen is guilty of a felony and is liable to imprisonment for life with or without caning. This law should be excise and thorough investigation is required with evidence already been submitted by the child guidance.” Checks by SaharaReporters on Monday revealed the petition had been signed by over 7, 843 persons at the time of filing this report. Narrating the incident that transpired between Baba Ijesha and her foster daughter, Princess said people, who were compassionate about her childlessness, entrusted the victim and five other children to her care, adding that after Omiyinka allegedly defiled the minor, her grades dropped. Princess's statement read, "Days ago, the news of popular Yoruba actor, Olarenwaju James Omiyinka popularly known as Baba Ijesha, raping a young girl of 7 hit the internet and since then, there’s been chaos. It's no longer news that I don't have biological children of my own so imagine how sad I am that the girl in question (who I would like to keep her personal information private) is one of my 6 adopted children (3 boys, 3 girls) Their parents trusted me to train them properly and didn't want me to feel alone. Now that the incident is public, it all feels surreal but very painful. I can't believe someone I tried to help when I was at my lowest point in life could do this. Reading the false news that he raped her continuously for 7 years after the initial Sexual Defilement that took place 7 years ago is also adding to my mental health breakdown. "Truly he defiled her in my sitting room years ago when I went downstairs to lock the gate after my aunt who had come to console me on the collapse of my marriage and loss of baby (her other siblings had gone out to play at the end of the street). She said after cleaning certain liquid (we suspect was sperm and blood) from her bum and his body, he warned her not to tell anyone and that it was nothing. In fact, he came the next day to make sure she had kept quiet. When he was leaving, he asked her to follow him to the car to pick a nylon of fruits for everyone, that was when he used his car key to sexually assault her again. After those two occasions, he completely avoided coming to my place but called anytime he was in need. "Fast forward to when my friend came around on Friday, April 16, 2021. she found me in a foul mood and went on to ask what had happened. I explained to her the same gut feeling I had been having for 7 years that something was wrong with her but it was not spiritual wouldn't go away. She then offered to talk to her and that was when all the secrets came out. "On one hand, we are a bit relieved and her parents are especially grateful to God that we now know the root cause of declining grades and sudden change in behaviour. On the other hand, it's so painful knowing that she had to bear all these by herself. Her innocence was stolen in less than 4 minutes. I truly can't find the right words to describe how deeply hurt I am. "These parents showed compassion by allowing their kids to live with me so I could experience motherhood. I protected and cared for them to the best of my ability but Lanre made me question my sanity as a mother. "I still can't get over the trauma of having to watch her on CCTV just so we could get proof. She was so scared before he arrived and we had to reassure her that we would come in before he could hurt her. She dreads him so much to the point that when she recognised him in a movie he and I featured in 2019, even her brothers couldn't console her. "We pray for justice and plead with the general public to respect our privacy as we are going through so much already. Thank you all for your continuous prayers and emotional support. May you never have to weep over your children. May God grant those of us looking for the fruit of the womb everlasting joy. I strongly believe God does not sleep."