Bunmi Oladuntoye, fiancée of the late NAF Pilot, Lt Taiwo Olufemi Asaniyi, who died in the  Beachcraft 350 aircraft that crashed at the Kaduna International Airport on Friday, has written an emotional tribute to him on Twitter. The grieving lady, in her tribute said Femi was the kindest and most humble person she has ever known. According to her, he proposed to her last August.  She described his death as unfortunate, noting that the deceased promised her that everything would be fine. See Also






Sahara Reporters
REVEALED: Identities Of Officers, 4 Crew Members Killed Along With Chief Of Army Staff In Plane Crash
0 Comments
2 Days Ago Her tribute read,  “Femi, I have not regretted walking this journey with you; you asked me to be your wife last year in August, and I gave you a resounding yes. One of the last things you said to me was to keep on being humble and continue to give. You were a giver, oh you were such a giver. Femi mi. “Femi mi, Olowo ori mi, who will hype me now when I make a new hair, who will call me fine girl, who will call me the most beautiful woman in the world. I have cried and cried and cried. People have spoken to me, James and Kamal have told me you wouldn’t want me to be sad and I and I know that for sure because whenever I am sad, and I cry, you will be like 'what’s the meaning of this now?'.  Femi mi, Olowo ori mi, who will hype me now when I make a new hair, who will call me fine girl, who will call me the most beautiful woman in the world. I have cried and cried and cried. People have spoken to me, James and Kamal have told me you wouldn't want me to be sad and I  “The world deserves to know how great you are. To Nigerians and the world at large, my fiance, FLIGHT LIEUTENANT TO ASANIYI was a great man who dedicated his life to serving this country. Pls, pray for him, pray for his family and pray for me. Adigun miiiiii, Femi miiiiii, Hot choco miiii sun re o!!!! ”I want your blue diary so bad because you had lots of intelligent things written in there. You treated me already like we were married. serving this country. Pls pray for him , pray for his family and pray for me. Adigun miiiiii, Femi miiiiii, Hot choco miiii sun re o!!!!I want your blue diary so bad because you had lots of intelligent things written in there. You treated me already like we were married.  “You treated me already like we were married. You would always say, “babe, don’t worry, everything will be fine, don’t worry” Hot choco miii, jo ma fimisile OLUFEMI TAIWO ASANIYI I love you now and forever.”