Ondo state governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has thrown his weight behind the outcome of a meeting held by the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday. APC chieftains in the South-West, had in the meeting on Sunday, supported Southern governors’ open grazing ban, call for restructuring and state police. The APC leaders at the meeting include Bola Tinubu, Bisi Akande, Olusegun Osoba, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu.  Akeredolu in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde also explained why he was absent at the meeting held in Lagos state. He attributed his absence to lack of timeous communication. The governor described the parley as ‘commendable and timely'. The statement read, “Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, has thrown his weight behind the outcome of the meeting held by the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday, in Lagos. “This is just as the governor said lack of timeous communication aside mix-up, was largely responsible for his inability to attend the meeting. "Governor Akeredolu would have loved to be present at the meeting for several reasons. Far more important, the issues distilled bordered on the Southern Governors' Asaba Declaration. However, a slight mix-up and communication gap had caused his unintended absence even as an earlier engagement had been fixed for Ibadan weeks before the meeting. "Nonetheless, the resolutions reached by the revered leaders at the Lagos meeting are quite commendable and timely; the issues discussed are germane, and are clear indications that men of goodwill are working together to solve the Nation's current challenges. "As one of the leaders of the APC in the Southwest, and more so that, he presided over the Asaba meeting of the Southern Governors, nothing could be more spirit-lifting than the outcome of the Lagos meeting on Sunday. He, therefore, endorses all the resolutions reached by the leaders who attended the meeting.”