Nollywood actress, Iyabo Ojo says she will not back down until justice is served on her colleague, Olanrewaju Omiyinka, aka Baba Ijesha, who was accused of molesting a minor. Ojo in a 7-minute video shared via her Instagram page on Monday slammed Nigerians who accused her of crying more than the bereaved in the child molestation case.  She vowed to make sure the embattled actor is brought to justice. “I used to think that every woman who has a child, who is a mother, will understand the pain of other children but I thought wrong. But I have come to understand that there are four types of mothers. “The first type of mother is the mother that is only able to love her own children – to love, protect, provide just for her own children. She doesn’t have the grace to love other children. “The second type of mother is the woman who craves so bad to have her own children but she can’t due to one reason or the other. But she’s got so much love and compassion for children and so she decides to adopt other people’s children or child and raise them and love them with all of her heart and soul and she doesn’t see no difference in whether the child is her biological child or not. “Third type of mother is the mother that doesn’t even know how to love her own child. She’s got no love for children, even though she is a mother, she doesn’t know how to love that child because sometimes in some cases, she doesn’t love herself and when you do not love yourself, it’s very hard to love other people. “And sometimes it might just be that she doesn’t just love children. And then we have this kind of mother who loves her children but also has the grace to love other children, she is passionate about children. It doesn’t have to be just her children alone. As long as you’re a child, she just has that special kind of love for you,” she said. Speaking further, the actress said she used to think the government was the problem of Nigeria but she has come to realise that Nigerians are one another’s problem with the way they think and act selfishly. She added that when people eventually get into power, they would not attend to some things simply because they do not concern them but would rather want to take care of their people. “The day we begin to take up issues that don’t concern us and treat them like our own problems, Nigeria will begin to get better. “So my brothers, my sisters, my mummies and daddies, my uncles, my aunties, my cousins, my nephews, I am that woman, that mother who will stand for that girl till the end. I am not backing down until justice is served. Thank you,” Ojo said.