The leadership of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has assured southeasterners that a referendum that will lead them to a sovereign nation of Biafra is around the corner. The group, thus, urged its members to be resolute in the agitation which it described as their fundamental human right.  IPOB revealed this in a statement by its spokesman, Emma Powerful on Monday while reacting to the success of the annual sit-at-home memorial of the Biafra heroes. In a press release entitled, ‘Biafra Day Sit-At-Home Order Recorded 100% Compliance Throughout Biafra Land – IPOB,’ the separatist organisation stated that the success of the sit-at-home order frightened their oppressors. “We the global family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), ably led by our prophet and liberator, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, are delighted to note that this year's sit-at-home order in honour of our fallen heroes recorded 100% success throughout Biafra land. “We, therefore, wish to warmly commend Biafrans, South-East Governors, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, friends and lovers of Biafra freedom who made the exercise a huge success. The unprecedented success and total compliance that greeted the exercise have sent panic waves down the spine of our oppressors. Now they understand how prepared we are in our irrevocable resolve to restore the Biafra Republic. “We immensely thank the people of Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Anambra, Abia, Delta, Imo, Edo, Rivers, Bayelsa, and Kogi states as well as Igbanke, Idoma and Igede people for being part of the success story. We equally extend our appreciation to our brothers and sisters in Ambazonia for their wonderful support. “We cannot but thank the Biafran Diaspora community for their inestimable contributions in our struggle for independence. Biafrans in the Diaspora did us proud on Sunday, May 30 when they trooped out in their thousands to celebrate the Biafra Day in their respective host countries. We are very proud of you all. “Above all, we are grateful to the Almighty God, Chukwu Okike Abiama for making the exercise peaceful and hitch-free. We are peace lovers and will continue to push for our freedom peacefully. “The huge success recorded in the sit-at-home order has further demonstrated that with unity we can actualise Biafra sooner than expected. “We, therefore, encourage all Biafrans to remain resolute in our struggle for self-determination which is our fundamental right. “How is it a crime to remember over 5 million Biafrans who died in the civil war as well as in our struggle for liberation when the zoo celebrates her Independence Day and democracy day? Nobody born of woman has the powers to stop us from honouring our dead. Biafra Remembrance Day has come to stay. “Very soon the stage will be set for our referendum to decide our fate. The oppressors are already jittery because they know what is coming. It's already very clear to them that they can no longer stop the birth of our new nation. “It's now clear to all that the zoo has collapsed beyond redemption. Very soon all the subjugated indigenous tribes in the contraption will be set free,” IPOB said in the statement.