Nollywood actor, Olarenwaju Omiyinka, popularly known as Baba Ijesha, accused of molesting a minor has been granted bail by the police. The actor was granted bail on Monday afternoon on health grounds.  His lawyer, Adesina Ogunlana, confirmed it to SaharaReporters. The development has, however, continued to attract heated outrage as many Nigerians argued that he ought to have remained in police custody. Baba Ijesha was arrested in April for sexually harassing a 14-year-old girl. Announcing his arrest in a statement, Lagos police spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi alleged that the actor had been sexually assaulting the teenager since she was seven. The Lagos State Government in a statement on May 4 subsequently that stated the actor would be charged under the Criminal Law of Lagos State. One of the charges against him includes indecent treatment of a child, which is punishable by seven years imprisonment.



See Also






Scandal
BREAKING: Nollywood Actor, Baba Ijesha Accused Of Sexually Harassing 14-year-old Girl Granted Bail
0 Comments
13 Hours Ago Another is the defilement of a child, which is punishable by life imprisonment, sexual assault by penetration is also punishable by life imprisonment. Baba Ijesha was also being charged for attempted sexual assault by penetration, punishable by 14 years imprisonment, and sexual assault, which is punishable by three years imprisonment. His release however came as a result of magistrates going around police stations across Lagos state, listening to cases and giving hearing to those arrested. His bail conditions include getting N500,000 bail bond, a level 10 officer and one of his family members as sureties. A cross-section of Nigerians has kicked against the bail granted to the actor, stating that paedophiles must have been behind it. However, when SaharaReporters contacted Princess Damilola, the foster mother of the victim, she stated that she had nothing to say at the time. A tweep, @abdullahkidnyce said, “In Nigeria, the law is meant for the poor and weak! Deal with it!” Another social media user, @Aadeola30 said, “Why am I not surprised? This is Nigeria.” @Ankaraola said, “Police that released Dr Anu to continue her practice has also granted Baba Ijesha bail. Tell me why people won’t always resort to jungle justice.” For @iotama22, the justice system in Nigeria is poor, comparing it to that of the United States. He wrote, “Bill Gates' romantic affair with his employee happened 20 years ago and the matter was still duly investigated. That's America for you. Nigeria: Despite video evidence against Baba Ijesha, people are still asking for more evidence. That's Naija for you!” @XtraSpicyIam said, “Why did they release that rapist Baba ijesha dude? Nigeria is tiring abeg.”