Vincent Aiyeki, a man from Orogho community in the Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State, has accused the state Commissioner of Police, Philip Ogbadu, of releasing a suspect who shot at him and two others some weeks ago. Aiyeki alleged that Osahon Imaru, who allegedly hired some thugs to attack him, used his ties with the police boss to secure bail for a primary suspect in the case.  He said the suspect, who was arrested in a case of attempted murder, has now been released even though justice had not yet been served. Aiyeki told SaharaReporters that trouble started when Imaru called for a meeting of Orogho community without the consent of the Enogie, who is the head of the community. He stated that when he and two others, Nosakhare Ogunsuyi and Saturday Omogiate demanded to know if  Enogie was aware of the purported meeting, Imaru identified them as Enogie boys and ordered his men to start shooting at them. According to Aiyeki, it took the grace of God for them to escape from the bloody scene. He further stated that as law-abiding citizens of Nigeria, they forwarded a petition to the Commissioner of Police through their lawyer to investigate to charge the culprits to court. He, however, said he was astonished that while they were still receiving treatment in an undisclosed hospital. He added that the principal suspect, Osaro Imaru, who should be arrested for attempted murder, was the person who approached the Commissioner of Police for the only suspect arrested in connection with the matter to be granted bail. He lamented that instead of arresting Imaru, the Commissioner of Police graciously released the suspect to him. He appealed to the Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 5, to come to his aid by ordering the arrest of all those involved in the shooting to serve as a lesson to those terrorising communities with arms. Aiyeki also appealed to the Oba of Benin and the Assistant Inspector General of Police to caution the police boss, alleging he had concluded a plan to pervert justice in a case of attempted murder reported against Imaru. Aiyeki said, "My name is Vincent Aiyeki from Orogho community in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State. Osahon Imaru shot at me and the commissioner of police released him; he has boasted that they have a connection with the commissioner and that nothing will happen. "I am pleading with the AIG to call this man to order, I don't understand how someone who shot at me can go to the station to bail someone who was arrested and that person will be released to him. "The AIG should call this man to caution this man so I can get justice. Imaru has been going about, boasting that nothing will happen to him. Today is my sixth day on the hospital bed. I am yet to be discharged, but the person who shot at us has been released. I was shot at, the police have not even checked up on me and the person has already been released because of their ties with the government. "Does this mean the government wants these people to keep going around killing people? That's why I am pleading that they should call Imaru to order. I want to know what I did to offend him."