Human rights activist and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa says strike action is a legitimate machinery of the masses to negotiate better deals with superior citizens in control of political and economic powers.  The legal practitioner stressed that boycotting works by the workers, though, has its inadequacies on the economy, but yet remains a viable tool of human existence, to address discrepancies between influential leaders and their dissatisfied subjects.  Adegboruwa added that strike is part of the modes allowed for collective bargaining in labour matters, while speaking to journalists.  “For totalitarian regimes that are not run on pure democratic principles, strike is a veritable tool in the hands of the employee to negotiate better deals either in relation to their employment or general welfare issues. This particular government has witnessed strikes because of the general perception that it is the best option to secure any deal from the leadership.  “The effect of strike actions can be very colossal indeed, in losses in businesses, manpower and economic progress but that is still better than a society where everybody resorts to self-help as in such a situation, life becomes brutish and short.  “In most cases, parties still have to come to the roundtable to discuss and agree, which means that the strike action could have been avoided in the first place. This means then that the appeal should be to those in positions of authority to set up some mechanisms that will create effective channels of communication between the workers and government.  “From experience, the workers would give the government notice spanning over days and yet, nothing will be done until the actual strike has been declared or commenced. See Also






LABOR/WORKERS' RIGHTS
NLC President, Wabba Replies Kaduna Governor, El-Rufai After Being Declared Wanted
0 Comments
6 Hours Ago “We will therefore have to deal with the situation as it is, given that it would seem that the strike option is the one that those who are in government prefer, which means they have to always contend with the consequences, since we cannot abrogate strike as it is allowed by law,” he said.  On the ongoing strike by Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN), Adegboruwa said the action is to the advantage of lawyers, judges, litigants and indeed the legal profession at large, as a way of addressing the real issues once and for all.  He reiterated that the general rational of most state governors is to enslave the courts and starve the judiciary of funds as a means of making it useless, so that lawlessness can thrive unchallenged or where challenged, unchecked.  Adegboruwa, however, lauded some governors across the country, the legislators and all lovers of democracy, for insisting on restructuring, devolution of powers, state police and true federalism. He desceibed it as the only way to save the Nigerian federation, at this critical time.