Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed has said there are corrupt influential people in the country whom the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration cannot arrest or prosecute. The governor said the Nigerian government is not fighting corruption appropriately by keeping some as sacred cows. He also stated that the Buhari-led government is not innovative on how to redeem the economy.  While speaking with journalists on Thursday, Mohammed also backed the position of the Southern governors on nepotism. The Southern Governors’ Forum on Tuesday after its meeting in Asaba, Delta State capital, demanded a review of federal appointments to reflect federal character. They also asked the president to address the nation over the widespread insecurity and called for national dialogue. Reacting, Bauchi State governor said, “I think the federal government has lost any idea to grow the economy. What they are best known for is the blame game. They are not even fighting the corruption they claimed to be fighting. “There’s more corruption; perceptions are built that there are sacred cows; there are gods in this country who cannot be touched.”    About the alleged lopsided appointments made by the President, Mohammed said, “If you are not fair and equitable in your administration, in your management, if there is nepotism where only one section is given positions in government, then there will be problems.”    “There is an iota of truth in what the southern governors said on some sections being highly favoured at the detriment of others.    “What we know in this country as a federalist is that there should always be a balance in terms of appointment of federal offices, even in the local governments.    “If you don’t practise fairness at the top, then you cannot get it at the lower table and people will begin to think of self-actualisation, self-determination and so on and it will reflect negatively. Unless we ensure fairness and equity in the leadership of the country we cannot grow the economy.”