A Nigerian-American artist, Charles Chiemezuo OKehie has joined the list of young composers for major studio picture in the Netflix film “Clash” Popularly known as Mezuo, the Los Angeles-based artist is said to have composed the original film score for the entire movie which debuted on Netflix on Tuesday.  Directed by the award-winning filmmaker Pascal Taum, Mezuo’s music is expected to add elements from both the United States and Nigeria. A graduate of the University of Texas at Austin McCombs School of Business with a minor in Screenwriting and Directing, Mezuo recently released his debut music video for his song “30”. Commenting on his stint for 'Clash', Mezuo said: “When I got hired on to score the film, I had no idea where it would end up. I just saw the picture and went to work. Needless to say, I’m ecstatic as this is a major achievement for me early in my career. It sets the tone for what’s to come and simultaneously opens up more doors for me across the broader entertainment industry.” Speaking about the Nigerian music industry, he said, “There’s more connectivity now. We’re as connected as ever to the Nigerian music industry from the United States as ever thanks to social media. With that, the sound and influence is spanning across the globe both ways. “More American artists have been experimenting with Afrobeat driven music because it’s become more prominent. There are also more international collaborations across the board as a result of all of this.” He also expressed a belief that he will succeed in the Nigerian music industry. He said, “Operating from North Hollywood but having my roots in Nigeria gives me unique leverage because I’m foreign, yet familiar in the Nigerian market. Some aspects will build curiosity because of the distance and shift in culture. “However, there’s inherent relatability as a Nigerian American. Moreover, I’ve personally made it a point to incorporate the Nigerian market in my career pursuits because I noticed that opportunity pretty early on. I’m excited to be digging deeper in the Nigerian market and ultimately giving my native land something to be proud of with the international strides I’ve made thus far in my career.”