The Lagos State Police Command says its men will find the killers of the mentally challenged woman killed by a mob after being accused of being in possession of a stolen baby and three AK-47 rifles on Monday. It further stated that the murderers will face the full wrath of the law, as it claimed the poor woman was killed for no reason as her killers could not produce any baby or AK-47 rifles retrieved from her. File photo used to illustrate story. The Command said this in a statement by its spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, which was made available to SaharaReporters on Tuesday. Some irate youths killed a mentally challenged woman at Abule Ado, under a bridge in the FESTAC area of Lagos on Monday. The mob claimed the woman stole a baby and had with her three AK-47 rifles, and so burnt her to death. In the statement, Adejobi said the woman had lived in that area for years, and vowed that the operatives of the Command would arrest her killers and punish them for murder. "The Lagos State Police Command has commenced investigation into the killing and setting ablaze of a mentally challenged woman, who was alleged to have been in possession of a stolen baby and three (3) AK 47 rifles at Abule Ado, under bridge, Festac Area of Lagos State on Monday 24th May, 2021. "Based on preliminary investigation, it was discovered that the mentally challenged woman had been living in the area for several years before she was lynched and set ablaze by some hoodlums in the area on the allegation of being in possession of a baby and three AK 47 rifles. "The Command wishes to state categorically that the woman was just murdered for reasons best known to the perpetrators of the heinous crime as investigation revealed that no baby and AK-47 rifles were found in her possession neither were they recovered by the perpetrators or the police. It's just a clear case of murder. "The Commissioner of Police has therefore ordered that the matter be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba-Lagos for proper investigation and the culprits should be arrested and charged to court with murder. "The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, also warned against jungle justice which is inhumane, criminal and detrimental to smooth Administration of Criminal Justice in Lagos and in Nigeria at large. He equally warned that the command will not tolerate such act as the long arm of the law will catch up with anyone or group of persons who engage in jungle justice in the state," the statement read.