Commercial activities came to a standstill on Monday in Owerri, Imo State as residents deserted the streets in compliance with the sit-at-home order issued by the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. IPOB, through its Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, had earlier said human and vehicular movements would be restricted across the South-East on Monday to mark the 54th anniversary of Biafra. Twitter/kecypeters But the Imo State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, and the police had also asked the people to ignore the separatist group’s sit-at-home order. Punch reported that commercial banks, schools, shops, malls, were all shut in Owerri on Monday morning. Also, commercial and private vehicles deserted the roads in the state capital for fear of being shot by IPOB operatives. It was gathered that the House of Representatives suspended its constitution review hearing in Imo and Abia States. The hearing was scheduled to hold in the two South-Eastern states this week. The suspension of the constitution review hearing in the two South-Eastern states followed the sadistic killings and destruction of police states, and other government assets in the two states. Also, there seems to be palpable fear in different parts of Ebonyi State, following the declaration of sit at home order by IPOB in the state. According to reports, the level of compliance in Ebonyi State is 100 per cent as shops, business centres, parks, stadium, recreational Centres, banks, universities, schools both private and public among others are not opened for activities. Vehicles and motorcycles are hardly seen on the road in Abakaliki, the state capital which is unusual in a state of quietness. In Ebonyi, a source who spoke with Vanguard said a group of young men were seen molesting passersby and motorcycle operators for violating the sit-at-home order at Ozibo Development Centre. The source said: “This sit-at-home is very strong in my place. Motorcycles are being set ablaze with motorists and passersby molested by ‘the boys’ who landed with buses and divided themselves into groups inside bushes along the road.” Situation report within the axis of Nnodo, Ebebe junction, and Ogbaga road reveal total compliance to the sit at home order in the state. An eyewitness observed that “What I am seeing now is not funny. The unknown mob, fierce-looking, carrying gallons of fuel, matchets, faces covered, numbering over 50 just pursued a car at a bridge close to my residence; the driver escaped and they burnt his car. Thereafter heading towards Ebebe junction. Please all should sit at home.” An unconfirmed report has it that shooting was heard around Amikeaba Community of Ebonyi Local Government Area of the State. “As I'm talking to you now, we are hearing gunshots from the Amikeaba area. It is like there’s a gun battle between the police and hoodlums in the area. We are in shock despite remaining in our houses. This is terrible.” Vanguard further reported that all banks, Glo World shops, MTN shops along both Ogoja Road and waterworks were shut as streets were deserted. The only motorcycle and tricycle operators on the road were seen with leaves on their bikes and tricycles to show solidarity while transport companies along Afikpo Road did not open for business. The development in Ebonyi is in total compliance with the sit-at-home order as this has never happened before in the history of Biafran agitation in the state.