The presiding Bishop of Living Faith Church Worldwide, David Oyedepo, has disclosed that he will not flee Nigeria even if a crisis breaks out.  Addressing his members at the church’s headquarters in Ota, Ogun State, on Sunday, Oyedepo admitted that though things were currently wrong in Nigeria, he would not leave the country.  He said: “If there is a crisis in this nation, I will be the last to leave here.  “Don’t rob nobody, don’t cheat on anyone. Don’t outsmart your business partners. Don’t swear falsely. Don’t take bribes. Favour is the companion of all that fear God and favour shall be your companion from now.  “Flowing in favour demands the doing of righteousness. You know there is the appropriation of righteousness that people emphasise today, but don’t be deceived, he that doeth righteousness is righteous. The doing righteousness: favour!  “There was an explosion of favour, until the time that his word came. The word of the Lord tried him.”  His comments came shortly after Pastor Paul Adefarasin of House on the Rock asked his members to have a plan B regarding their stay in Nigeria.  Adefarasin said Nigerians should have escape plans out of the country should things degenerate.  SaharaReporters quoted Adefarasin as saying, “No country in the world history has ever survived two civil wars. You could be in fright and running for your dear life any day from now if this thing does not come to an end. See Also






Politics
Take Motorbike To Cameroon Or Flying Boat To Seme Border, Just Leave Nigeria —Pastor Adefarasin Advises Nigerians
0 Comments
1 Week Ago “My personal encouragement to leaders and government on all sides is that it is not time to be partisan. It is time to sit down and dialogue.  “I urge you all to have a plan B and start making moves on how to leave this country. I know you have faith, I have faith too but I have a plan B.  “With technology, I can speak to you from anywhere in the world.   “Get yourself a plan B. Whether that’s an Okada to Cameroon or a flying boat to Seme Border. Do whatever you can to see you leave this country.  “Just get your plan B because these people are crazy. The leaders we have, they are all a bunch of jokers.”