The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors' Forum has thrown its weight behind the recent decision made by Southern Governors to ban open grazing. The governors met in Ibadan, Oyo State capital on Monday, where they discussed the growing insecurity in the country.  The position of the governors was contained in a statement made available to journalists on Monday. The statement said in attendance were: Governors Nyesom Wike, (Rivers); Udom Emmanuel, (Akwa Ibom); Douye Diri, (Bayelsa); Samuel Ortom, (Benue); Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, (Enugu); Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, (Delta); Ahmadu Umaru Fintini, (Adamawa); Godwin Obaseki, (Edo);. Bala Mohammed (Bauchi) and the Deputy Governor Mahdi Mohd, who represented the Governor of Zamfara State, Bello Matawalle. Chairman of the PDP Governors' Forum, Aminu Tambuwal, who read the six point communique at the end of the meeting, called for the amendment of the country’s constitution to give room for state police and others. The statement reads, "In the interim, Mr President should summon an immediate meeting of the Nigerian Police Council, which comprises Mr President and all State Governors and other critical stakeholders to evolve and implement strategies to combat the present threats to our union, especially with respect to policing. "The meeting agreed that the Police Force still remains the appropriate institution to secure our democracy and should not be subjected to personal attacks. The welfare, training, equipment, funding of all security agencies should be given priority." Describing the ruling All Progressives Congress party as clueless, the communique also read, "The meeting supports the earlier position taken by the Nigeria Governors Forum, Northern Governors Forum and recently by the Southern Governors Forum to adopt ranching as the most viable solution to the herders/farmers clashes in Nigeria; the restructuring of the Nigerian federation to devolve more powers and functions to the States, and reform of various civil institutions to achieve efficiency and equity for all sections of Nigeria. "The meeting enjoins all Nigerians to work together to achieve peace and harmony with one another, devoid of discrimination based on ethnicity, religion and other cleavages. To this end, the meeting called on the incompetent and rudderless APC Government to take bold and deliberate steps to de-escalate and lower tensions in our country, and concentrate on projects and policies that will enhance and promote national unity and cohesion. “The meeting reiterated our earlier call for the National Assembly to expedite action on the passage of the Electoral Act that will ensure a free and fair election, including provisions for electronic accreditation and electronic transmission of votes.”