A member of the ruling All Progressives Congress has alleged misconducts ahead of the forthcoming Kaduna local government elections slated for June 2021.  It was gathered that the millions of naira realised from the sale of contestants forms from over 100 APC aspirants of the 23 local governments of the state were paid into the private bank account of a personal assistant.  One of the contestants who spoke on condition of anonymity said he only directed his financial managers to pay his N1.2 million into the account supplied to him by the party leadership without cross-checking the account details.  He described the oral interview and screening examination as unconstitutional but restated his commitment to remain in the party.  He vowed to continue to support and believe in the party's initiative.  He also advocated for a thorough review of the Constitution to reflect those realities.  Similarly, many of the disqualified aspirants who were introduced into the council based on screening examination and oral interview described the initiatives as alien and unconstitutional.  They also adjudged the primary elections precipitating the screening as flawed and marred by irregularities.  It was alleged that election materials were reportedly brought in with photocopies of election results in some areas, especially in the Chikun Local Government Area of the state during the APC primary held last Saturday.  Consequent to this, supporters of some aspirants in the Chikun Local Government Area forcefully stopped the distribution of the materials, having smelled a foul play.  In the same vein, it was also reliably gathered that elections did not take place in over three wards in Kaduna North Local Government Area due to lack of materials even as late arrivals were reported across some areas.  "As for Chikun LGA, the election materials were brought in with photocopies of election results, and supporters of some candidates forcefully stopped distribution of the materials, having smelled a foul play.  "The waiting game continued until 5:45 pm Sunday when the election materials were taking to the office of Operation Yaki for safekeeping," an eyewitness revealed.  There was anticipation that the election, therefore, may take place in the affected areas on Monday, but this has yet to be done as at the time of filing this report.  Efforts to get the reaction of APC State Chairman, Emmanuel Jakada, were unsuccessful as he neither answered his call nor replied messages sent to him by our reporter.