Next Sunday, May 23, 2021, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Bisi Akande, General (rtf) Alani Akinrinade, Pius Akinyelure, Femi Gbajabiamila, Musiliu Smith, Governors Dapo ABiodun (Ogun State), Babajide Sanwo-Olu, (Lagos), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), and Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti) will meet at the Lagos House, Marina. The meeting is expected to address agitation for self-determination and Igboho factor.  The meeting is not going to add value or any push to the collective wish of the Yoruba people for the creation of Oduduwa Nation. It has been said that effective  leaders know when to lead, when to follow, and when to get out of the way. Effective leaders do much more than give orders. They create a shared vision for the future and viable strategic plans for the present. Do these leaders create a shared vision for the future of Yoruba people? No! Do they give us a viable strategic plans for present? Not at all! Are they listening to Yoruba people? Absolutely not! Their concern and convergence is how to sacrifice the agitation for Yoruba Nation for Tinubu 2023.  Do they place the needs and goals of Yoruba people over their own personal goals and ambitions? No! Do they involve the Yoruba people in the decision making process? No! Do they make decisions based on their own concerns or the concerns of their own elite class? Yes! Are they really after the interest of Yoruba people? Hell NO!  I call them wishbone leaders because they don’t climb the peaks but are content to settle down in the valleys of jagajaga one Nigeria because they profit from it. They are wishbone leaders because  their dreams are not big enough. They don’t wish enough. They are contented with the rot they have turned Nigeria to.  Backbone leaders of Yorubas are leaders who are determined to fight our course, stay our course, to do what it takes to convert the wishes of Yorubas to birth Oduduwa Nation. At the intersection of history in our struggle for liberation, freedom, and independence, Yorubas need backbone leaders not wishbone leaders.  bjoluwasanmi@gmail.com