The Imo State Police Command has killed two hoodlums suspected to be masterminds of the attack on the State Police headquarters and correctional centre sometime in April. This was made known in a statement issued by the Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, on Tuesday. File photo used to illustrate story. According to the statement, the hoodlums identified as Uchenna Elendu and Elu Osinachi were gunned down on Monday in a well-coordinated operation at Ocha Community, Awara in Ohaji/Bema Local Government Area of the State.  This was after the duo engaged police officers in an intense gun battle which caused serious injuries for the suspects, who were taken to the hospital but later confirmed dead.  The police recovered one Ak47 rifle with breach number 11654 and a cache of live ammunition.  Elkana stated that the operation will be sustained until all perpetrators are brought to justice.   The statement reads, ”In response to the mandate given to the Commissioner of Police Imo State, CP Abutu Yaro, fdc, by the Inspector General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, to ensure that the hoodlums who attacked the Command headquarters Owerri and Correctional Centre, Owerri are apprehended, the Command on 24th May 2021 at about 1820 hours, carried out a well-coordinated operation at Ocha Community, Awara in Ohaji/Bema Local Government Area, Imo State.   “The hoodlums were engaged in a gun battle. During the gun duel that lasted for about two hours, two suspects believed to have masterminded the attack at the Police Headquarters and Correctional Centre, Owerri on 5th April 2021, were fatally injured. The suspects are Unchenna Elendu 'm' of Umukusu Ocha area and Elu Osinachi 'm' of Umuobube Awara  “The two suspects were taken to hospital for medical examination. The doctor on duty confirmed Uchenna dead on arrival while Osinachi Elu who was in a coma was subsequently confirmed dead.  “One Ak47 rifle with breach number 11654 and a cache of live ammunition were recovered. Also recovered are a number of expanded ammunition, matchets and criminal charms tied around the waist of the suspects.  “The operation will be sustained until all the perpetrators of the dastardly attack are brought to justice."