The Nigerian government has concluded plans to illegally arrest and deport Ambassador Mohammed Dauda, former Acting Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), SaharaReporters has gathered. Saharareporters had consistently reported the corruption and money laundering activities of former Director General of the NIA, Ambassador Ayodele Oke, which resulted in his removal before he was subsequently absolved from prosecution by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Buhari and Abba Kyari See Also






Corruption
EFCC Declares Ex-NIA Boss, Ayodele Oke, Wife Wanted
0 Comments
2 Years Ago Ambassador Dauda was appointed as successor to Oke by President Muhammadu Buhari but little did he know his appointors had their eyes on "free money" in the custody of the agency. Ambassador Mohammed Dauda
TheSun SaharaReporters learnt that Ambassador Dauda consistently refused to join the criminal gang that pushed for the money to be stolen. Rather, he reported the demands and pressures from the late Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari and Ambassador Babagana Kingibe to the National Security Adviser. Buhari and Kingibe The funds recovered from Oke and others were deposited with the NSA, contrary to the plan and demands of Abba Kyari and Kingibe. Dauda had in 2018 exposed how $44 million contracted to the agency was looted by powerful hands, including the late Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe and the current Director General of NIA, Abubakar Rufai Ahmed. SaharaReporters gathered that the fund, which was in cash, was kept in the agency’s vaults in Abuja. It was later removed to an unknown destination barely two days after Abubakar was appointed as DG. “At the time Federal Government launched an investigation into the funds last year, only the cash discovered in Lagos and the $44 million lying in the Abuja vault remained to be expended out of the original $260 million. “As soon as it started its probe, the Yemi Osinbajo-led committee directed that the money must remain in NIA’s vault as exhibit. While the money remained in the vault, certain powerful forces mounted pressure on the acting DG, Ambassador Mohammed Dauda, who was redeployed from Chad, to use the money since it is the property of the NIA but the acting DG refused. “The powerful forces pushed very hard for the money to be tampered with, saying government had forgotten all about it, but for the firm resistance of the outgoing acting DG. “But barely two days after President Buhari named a substantive head for the agency, a black bullion van was dispatched to NIA and the money was removed to an unknown destination around 6am on Friday. The team that removed the money was accompanied by a serving military officer who was posted to the intelligence outfit months ago as the finance officer. “The total amount of money that was taken away from NIA’s vaults on Friday was $44,285,996,” Daily Trust quoted a source as saying in 2018. Speaking to SaharaReporters, a presidential source said Dauda as Acting DG reported the monetary demands by the late Kyari and Kingibe to the National Security Adviser, Mohammed Babagana Monguno. “Subsequently, the recovered funds from Ambassador Oke and other funds were deposited with the NSA, contrary to the plan and demands of Abba Kyari and Kingibe. He was summarily removed from office by the cabal and hounded out of the country. He was subsequently sacked but he challenged his sacking at the industrial court and won. “The current DG, one of Kingibe's lackies and aides has vehemently attempted to punish Ambassador Dauda. They are on the move to secure a kangaroo arrest warrant, from a Magistrate Court, even when JUSUN (Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria) is on strike, to have Dauda repartriated to Nigeria. “This order has been transmitted to the Inspector General of Police for his action and collaborations with Interpol and security agents to have him arrested at his hideout and deported him to his traducers,” the source said. 