The Ebonyi State Government has reacted to the alleged bomb explosion in a school in the Afikpo North Local Government Area of the state on Tuesday, saying it was a hand grenade th went off. The state government said the explosion claimed the life of a passerby.  There had been reports earlier today that a suspected suicide bomber surfaced in Ebonyi and attempted to bomb the Amaizu/Amangballa primary school in the Afikpo North LGA. Reports had said the bomber attempted to enter the primary school but was turned back by the school’s security guard after failing to justify his reason for visiting. “He immediately started running inside a nearby bush before a big bang was heard,” an eyewitness had said. Residents immediately scampered to safety on hearing a loud bang before reconvening at the scene only to see the dismembered corpse of the bomber. The eyewitness disclosed that the incident, which happened close to the popular Eke Afikpo Market, said to be the biggest market around there, caused panic in the area. In a statement, however, by state government, Francis Nwaze, the Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to Governor David Nweze Umahi said the news was in sharp contrast to the reality as the incident was a grenade of a security personnel carrying out his duties at the said location that accidentally exploded. He said, “My attention has been drawn to a news making the round in some section of the media that there was an explosion of a suicide bomb in Afikpo, Ebonyi State this afternoon. “The above news is in sharp contrast to the reality as the incident was a grenade of a security personnel carrying out his duties at the said location that accidentally exploded. A similar incident occurred in front of the Ebonyi State Old Government House as some mobile police officers were servicing their APC machine. “The first incident took the life of a passerby while the second caused injuries on the affected person, who has been taken to the hospital, where he is currently receiving treatment. The general public is, therefore, charged to disregard the fake news as it is the handiwork of enemies of the state who are bent on causing panic where none exists.”