Gunmen have attacked some houses in the Millionaires Quarters, Byzahin area of Kubwa, a satellite town of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, kidnapping three residents and demanding N10 million. SaharaReporters learnt that one of the victims, a member of the Mountain of Fire and Miracle Ministries, off Liberty Junction, Kubwa, was prayed for on Sunday while some members of the church also raised a donation for his family. File photo used to illustrate story. Witnesses said the gunmen struck on Friday evening, shooting sporadically to create tension while they made away with the three male residents – without any confrontation from the police and other security agencies. “The gunmen invaded Millionaires Quarters around 10pm, they are suspected Fulani boys. They started shooting into the air and entering house by house, after which they kidnapped the three men. “The families have been contacted. The criminals are asking for N10 million; they have threatened that if the money is not paid by today (Monday), the families should forget their breadwinners,” a source explained. “The MFM church prayed for our kidnapped member on Sunday and also raised some money to assist the family. But for how long are we going to be paying criminals our hard-earned sweat? Is the President (Muhammadu Buhari) sleeping in Aso Rock or is he handicapped to deal with the security situation? Let him resign then,” a member said. Gunmen attacks and abductions are now becoming rampant in the FCT to the dismay and panic of residents of suburb areas particularly. Last Saturday, a man and his son were also abducted by gunmen in the Kuchiko Relocation Development Area of Bwari in Abuja. The gunmen numbering over 20 had invaded the community popularly known as El-Rufa’i Estate at midnight and shot rapidly in the air. An eyewitness said they overpowered security guards and headed for the house of the victims. There was panic among the residents of the estate, who were woken up by the sound of gunshots. Other satellite towns in the FCT have been experiencing incidents of kidnapping for a while now, especially in Gwagwalada and Kuje area councils. Meanwhile, the Senate is considering Wednesday a bill that seeks to prohibit the payment and receipt of ransom for the release of any person kidnapped, imprisoned or wrongfully confined. The Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which scaled second reading during plenary was sponsored by Senator Ezenwa Francis Onyewuchi. According to the lawmaker, the piece of legislation seeks to amend the Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2013 to outlaw the payment of ransom to abductors, kidnappers and terrorists for the release of any person who has been wrongfully confined, imprisoned or kidnapped. He noted that the bill essentially seeks to substitute for section 14 of the Principal Act a new section to read: “Anyone who transfers funds, makes payment or colludes with an abductor, kidnapper or terrorist to receive any ransom for the release of any person who has been wrongfully confined, imprisoned or kidnapped is guilty of a felony and is liable on conviction to a term of imprisonment of not less than 15 years.”