The identity of the driver of the Toyota Matrix car that crushed a young child in Ogbomoso, Oyo State during the local government election campaign on Thursday, has been revealed. The man identified as Nurudeen Alade was said to be a member of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), otherwise known as Park Manager System (PMS) in the state. Oyo Governor, Makinde’s Convoy Kills Young Boy In Ogbomoso During Campaign
SaharaReporters Media SaharaReporters on Thursday reported that about 500 commercial buses and other cars accompanied the state governor, Seyi Makinde to campaign in Ogbomoso on Thursday. Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, who denied that the girl was killed by a vehicle in the convoy of his principal, said, "Seyi Makinde was not involved in the accident that led to the death of a girl during the local government election campaign in Ogbomoso on Thursday." See Also






Sahara Reporters
Despite Oyo Government’s Denial, Video Shows PDP Members Discussing How Makinde’s Convoy Overran Kid
0 Comments
7 Hours Ago Adisa, who expressed the governor's condolence to the family of the deceased child, said that contrary to the story alleging the killing of the child by a vehicle in the convoy of the Oyo State governor, the girl was killed by a Toyota Matrix car. According to the governor's aide, the vehicle was said to have lost control after its front tyres deflated while in motion, close to the venue of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign rally. Adisa said the governor's convoy had arrived at the Oja-gbo Town Hall venue of the rally, with the governor and his entourage settled in before the incident occurred. He said it was while the programme was ongoing that some residents stormed the venue of the event with the corpse of the child. He maintained that it is common knowledge that Toyota Matrix vehicles are not part of any governor's convoy in Nigeria, saying: "While we await further details on the identity of the driver of the ill-fated car from security agencies, the people of Ogbomoso should remain calm and rest assured that the government will get to the root of this matter." The governor's aide warned against false and sensational journalism, stating that Makinde commiserated with the family of the deceased because he values all lives and would never want any life to be lost under any circumstance. Reacting to the statement, a former governor of the state and indegene of Ogbomoso land, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala asked Makinde to ensure that a thorough investigation is carried out on this incident and the findings made public. He said whoever is responsible should be brought to justice. Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC), in a statement issued on Friday and made available to journalists in Ibadan by its Assistant Publicity Secretary, Prince Ayobami Adejumo, said it was the height of insensitivity and irresponsibility for Makinde to have made any attempt to deny the fact that innocent girl's life was cut short by one of his core loyalists who drove recklessly to create fear in the minds of the people as drivers of the vehicles who form the convoy of the governor usually behave. "But in the early hours of Friday, it came to the knowledge of the general public that Governor Makinde was economical with truth as it was discovered that one Alade Nurudeen was actually the culprit. The same man (Nurudeen Alade) was not only a card-carrying member of the PDP but also one of those appointed by the governor as handlers of the Park Management System (PMS) in the state." The party said, "It is an established fact that those given the opportunity to amass wealth from revenue derivable from all motor parks pride themselves as park managers and people in power. They move around in unregistered vehicles as they usually replace authorised number plates with stickers which carry various inscriptions announcing the power vested in their overall boss (Mukaila Lamidi, also known as Auxiliary). "Nurudeen Alade was carried away by power conferred on his likes by Governor Makinde and he caused another disaster which would haunt him forever. Immediately the incident occurred, the thugs in the governor's entourage knew the implications of what they had done and they tried to conceal the identity of their colleague who committed the murder. They removed the implicating sticker on the vehicle but later, the truth came out and this development also made the governor to delete all his previous tweets in which he had denied the obvious."