Popular social media influencer, Boluwatife Fabunmi (@Tife_fabunmi) has filed a lawsuit against his ex-lover, Comfort Oroboghene, popularly known as Sansa, for publicly accusing him of rape.  A four-page Pre- Action Notice by Tife's legal counsel, Akeem Fadun, demanded an immediate retraction of the "false allegation" and a letter of apology from Tife's ex-lover, Comfort Oroboghene.  He added that N100 million would be demanded as compensation for defamation at the Lagos State High Court if Sansa failed to respond to the notice within 14 days.  Tife, who was alleged by Sansa of rape, blackmail and assault narrated that the incident happened on 9th of January, 2020 at an undisclosed hotel in Warri, Delta State.  He said they only had what he described as 'consensual sex' that day after which his ex-lover complimented him a day after the sexual encounter.  In a rape accusation tweeted by Sansa on May 18th, 2020, she accused her ex-lover of molesting and sexually abusing her.  "I never cheated on anyone with anybody, male or female. I only ever loved Boluwatife Fabunmi and was there for him as best as I knew how to. And what did I get in return? I was shamed! Ridiculed! Abused! Blackmailed! Raped! Disrespected! Cheated on!" She had tweeted.  Meanwhile, Tife had explained that Sansa's lawyer in his 10th May, 2021 response, repeated the same accusations against him after he had initially forwarded an email to Sansa asking her to retract the false allegations made against him on her Twitter timeline.  The legal notice further read that the two lovers had a series of consensual sexual encounters during their relationship before Sansa later brought up the allegation.  "...It is on record that purported 'rape' and 'assault' you falsely accused our client of, was on the 9th of January, 2020, after the consensual sex you both had on that day, you sent our client a lengthy WhatsApp message on the 10th of January, 2020 stating how much you loved him and he was a blessing to you....  "...take note that if our client demand is not met within 14 days of the receipt of this Pre-action Notice, we shall immediately proceed to Lagos State High Court to institute an action for Libel against you seeking general and exemplary damages to the tune of N100,000,000 (One Hundred Million Naira)..." the notice read in part.  Sansa was said to have got married to another man two months after the allegations against his ex-boyfriend.  Akeem Fadun however told SaharaReporters that Sansa had failed to take down her post on Twitter where she accused his client despite promising to do so.  He said her failure to honour the said promise was a deliberate action to fool his client (Tife) and his parents. DOCUMENTS: Rape Allegation: New Bride Sued N100million By Ex-lover For Alleged Defamation by Sahara Reporters on Scribd 