A nameless Fulani group said to be a faction of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria in the Oke-Ogun area of Oyo state on Thursday alleged of planned terror attacks in the state. The group, through its Chairman, Umar Dogo and Secretary, Joni Yayi, alleged that the sons of the embattled Seriki Fulani of Igangan, Seriki Salihu Abdulkadir, who fled the state following an ultimatum given by Sunday Igboho in January, were behind the planned terror attacks. SaharaReporters Media The group also alleged that the sons of the embattled Seriki Fulani have been training bandits in the state. The group called the attention of the Oyo State Government, security agents, Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, and community leaders in the state to the security threat. Dogo and Yayi said the youths are strategising, harbouring criminals, and recruiting bandits, kidnappers, and robbers to carry out all kinds of criminal activities in the state. According to a statement signed by the duo, criminals are being recruited to terrorise the people in the state.The group said out of the eight people fingered in the sinister plot, three of them are biological sons of the embattled Seriki Fulani. Abdulkadir left the state recently after his house and cars were burnt by youths in Igangan over his alleged involvement in kidnapping and banditry. The statement identified the following people as part of the plot: Maman Saliu, Ibrahim Saliu, and Aliu Saliu (who are presently in Ilorin, Kwara State). The three are said to be the sons of the embattled Seriki Fulani. Others include Mamudu Abagu (from Iganna); Alhaji Mumini, immediate past Chairman of Meyetti Allah (Abeokuta branch); Hajia Aminat (from Oyo) and Alhaji Lawal Galadima, also from Oyo. The statement reads in part, "The aforementioned people, our feeler from the Fulani community in Oke-Ogun and Ibarapa hinted that they were dissatisfied over the plan to remove the embattled Serkin Fulani Alhaji Abdulkadir Saliu by some Fulanis in Oyo state. "Therefore their plans, if successful, may lead to ethnic conflicts that can lead to civil unrest and breakdown of law and order. The source therefore called on the Oyo state government to beam its searchlight henceforth on Ibarapa, Oke-Ogun in particular and Oyo state in general as well as place aforementioned names on their watchlist."