Former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode has urged the federal government to arrest controversial Islamic cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi over his roles in demanding amnesty for bandits. The controversial cleric has been criticised by Nigerians for his position that the government should negotiate with bandits and yield to their demands.  Many Nigerians had also called for Gumi's arrest following his recent comment on the abduction of Greenfield University students. On Tuesday, Gumi urged the government not to take the threat by the kidnappers of students of Greenfield University, Kaduna, lightly. He said the Central Bank of Nigeria should pay the N100 million ransom demanded by the kidnappers of the students. His comment came as a parent of one of the abducted students lamented that the kidnappers were insisting on a ransom of N100 million. But in a statement issued on Wednesday, Fani-Kayode described Gumi as “an accessory and accomplice to terrorism, abduction, kidnapping and murder”. He was referring to the testimony of one of the parents, whose child was abducted by bandits from Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka in Kaduna State The aggrieved mother, speaking with journalists, said she alongside other parents were taken to Gumi's house, who later directed them to an Ahmed, who invited a Fulani man from Kaduna. She said they all raised N800,000 for him, but were told the money was just for transport. Fani-Kayode said if this account is to go by, Gumi ought to be behind bars by now. The statement read, “(They took us to Gumi's house. He directed us to an Ahmed, who invited a Fulani from Kaduna. We contributed N800,000 for him. He told us that was just for transport. I cried and pleaded with him, saying I'm a widow. He said it wasn't his concern"- Kidnapped student's mum, RootsTV, 4th May 2021). “I hereby call on the Federal Government to invite, arrest and interrogate Sheik Ahmad Gumi. Assuming this lady's testimony is true it provides clear evidence of him being an accessory and accomplice to terrorism, abduction, kidnapping and murder. “He is a BAG man, a FRONT and a PR officer for the terrorists that have plagued our land and I have no doubt that he personally benefits from the ransoms that are being paid. “If this were not the case, he would not spend his entire life attempting to defend, justify, rationalise and explain their barbaric, homicidal, savage and beastly ways. “These people have so much blood on their hands yet Gumi still holds himself out as their advocate and best friend. He is nothing but an extortionist who thrives on the misery and blood of those that have been murdered and kidnapped. First, it was Pantami and now this! “How much longer do the people of Nigeria have to put up with evil and wicked men like this? Enough is enough! If no one else will say it, I will. “Gumi must be brought to justice and so must every single one of his foreign Fulani terrorist friends and all those within and outside government that have links with ISIS, Al Qaeda, Boko Haram, the Fulani terrorists, the Taliban, ISWA, Al Shabab and any other evil terrorist organisations which seek to kill and Islamise our people and conquer and occupy our territory and nation. “Nigerians are being murdered every day and our soldiers are on the war front being slaughtered by these barbarians and animals yet some that are highly placed in society are still supporting them? This is nothing but wickedness. This is evil. This is wrong. This is unacceptable. “If the Federal Government refuses to act against Gumi it will raise questions about their commitment to fighting terror and stopping the terrorists. Every day people are being killed and kidnapped. This madness has to stop and those behind it and that covertly support it must be brought to justice.”